1
COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
[As Amended Through P.L. 119–12, Enacted May 19, 2025]
øCurrency: This publication is a compilation of the text of Chapter 652 of the 73rd
Congress. It was last amended by the public law listed in the As Amended
Through note above and below at the bottom of each page of the pdf version and
reflects current law through the date of the enactment of the public law listed at
https://www.govinfo.gov/app/collection/comps/¿
øNote: While this publication does not represent an official version of any Federal
statute, substantial efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of its contents.
The official version of Federal law is found in the United States Statutes at Large
and in the United States Code. The legal effect to be given to the Statutes at
Large and the United States Code is established by statute (1 U.S.C. 112, 204).¿
AN ACT To provide for the regulation of interstate and foreign communication by
wire or radio, and for other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 1. ø47 U.S.C. 151¿ PURPOSES OF ACT, CREATION OF FEDERAL
COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION.
For the purpose of regulating interstate and foreign commerce
in communication by wire and radio so as to make available, so far
as possible, to all the people of the United States, without discrimi-
nation on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, or sex,
a rapid, efficient, Nation-wide, and world-wide wire and radio com-
munication service with adequate facilities at reasonable charges,
for the purpose of the national defense, for the purpose of pro-
moting safety of life and property through the use of wire and radio
communication, and for the purpose of securing a more effective
execution of this policy by centralizing authority heretofore granted
by law to several agencies and by granting additional authority
with respect to interstate and foreign commerce in wire and radio
communication, there is hereby created a commission to be known
as the ‘‘Federal Communications Commission,’’ which shall be con-
stituted as hereinafter provided, and which shall execute and en-
force the provisions of this Act.
SEC. 2. ø47 U.S.C. 152¿ APPLICATION OF ACT.
(a) The provisions of this act shall apply to all interstate and
foreign communication by wire or radio and all interstate and for-
eign transmission of energy by radio, which originates and/or is re-
ceived within the United States, and to all persons engaged within
the United States in such communication or such transmission of
energy by radio, and to the licensing and regulating of all radio sta-
tions as hereinafter provided; but it shall not apply to persons en-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
2Sec. 3 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
gaged in wire or radio communication or transmission in the Canal
Zone, or to wire or radio communication or transmission wholly
within the Canal Zone. The provisions of this Act shall apply with
respect to cable service, to all persons engaged within the United
States in providing such service, and to the facilities of cable opera-
tors which relate to such service, as provided in title VI.
(b) Except as provided in sections 223 through 227, inclusive,
section 276, and section 332, and subject to the provisions of sec-
tion 301 and title VI, nothing in this Act shall be construed to
apply or to give the Commission jurisdiction with respect to (1)
charges, classifications, practices, services, facilities, or regulations
for or in connection with intrastate communication service by wire
or radio of any carrier, or (2) any carrier engaged in interstate or
foreign communication solely through physical connection with the
facilities of another carrier not directly or indirectly controlling or
controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with such
carrier, or (3) any carrier engaged in interstate or foreign commu-
nication solely through connection by radio, or by wire and radio,
with facilities, located in an adjoining State or in Canada or Mexico
(where they adjoin the State in which the carrier is doing busi-
ness), of another carrier not directly or indirectly controlling or con-
trolled by, or under direct or indirect common control with such
carrier, or (4) any carrier to which clause (2) or clause (3) would
be applicable except for furnishing interstate mobile radio commu-
nication service or radio communication service to mobile stations
on land vehicles in Canada or Mexico; except that sections 201
through 205 of this Act, both inclusive, shall, except as otherwise
provided therein, apply to carriers described in clauses (2), (3), and
(4).
SEC. 3. ø47 U.S.C. 153¿ DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this Act, unless the context otherwise re-
quires—
(1) ADVANCED COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.—The term ‘‘ad-
vanced communications services’’ means—
(A) interconnected VoIP service;
(B) non-interconnected VoIP service;
(C) electronic messaging service;
(D) interoperable video conferencing service; and
(E) any audio or video communications service used by
inmates for the purpose of communicating with individuals
outside the correctional institution where the inmate is
held, regardless of technology used.
(2) AFFILIATE.—The term ‘‘affiliate’’ means a person that
(directly or indirectly) owns or controls, is owned or controlled
by, or is under common ownership or control with, another per-
son. For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘‘own’’ means to
own an equity interest (or the equivalent thereof) of more than
10 percent.
(3) AMATEUR STATION.—The term ‘‘amateur station’’ means
a radio station operated by a duly authorized person interested
in radio technique solely with a personal aim and without pe-
cuniary interest.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
3 Sec. 3COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(4) AT&T CONSENT DECREE.—The term ‘‘AT&T Consent
Decree’’ means the order entered August 24, 1982, in the anti-
trust action styled United States v. Western Electric, Civil Ac-
tion No. 82–0192, in the United States District Court for the
District of Columbia, and includes any judgment or order with
respect to such action entered on or after August 24, 1982.
(5) BELL OPERATING COMPANY.—The term ‘‘Bell operating
company’’—
(A) means any of the following companies: Bell Tele-
phone Company of Nevada, Illinois Bell Telephone Com-
pany, Indiana Bell Telephone Company, Incorporated,
Michigan Bell Telephone Company, New England Tele-
phone and Telegraph Company, New Jersey Bell Tele-
phone Company, New York Telephone Company, U S West
Communications Company, South Central Bell Telephone
Company, Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Com-
pany, Southwestern Bell Telephone Company, The Bell
Telephone Company of Pennsylvania, The Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Company, The Chesapeake and Poto-
mac Telephone Company of Maryland, The Chesapeake
and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia, The Chesa-
peake and Potomac Telephone Company of West Virginia,
The Diamond State Telephone Company, The Ohio Bell
Telephone Company, The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph
Company, or Wisconsin Telephone Company; and
(B) includes any successor or assign of any such com-
pany that provides wireline telephone exchange service;
but
(C) does not include an affiliate of any such company,
other than an affiliate described in subparagraph (A) or
(B).
(6) BROADCAST STATION.—The term ‘‘broadcast sta-
tion,’’‘‘broadcasting station,’’ or ‘‘radio broadcast station’’ means
a radio station equipped to engage in broadcasting as herein
defined.
(7) BROADCASTING.—The term ‘‘broadcasting’’ means the
dissemination of radio communications intended to be received
by the public, directly or by the intermediary of relay stations.
(8) CABLE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘cable service’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 602.
(9) CABLE SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘cable system’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 602.
(10) CHAIN BROADCASTING.—The term ‘‘chain broadcasting’’
means simultaneous broadcasting of an identical program by
two or more connected stations.
(11) COMMON CARRIER.—The term ‘‘common carrier’’ or
‘‘carrier’’ means any person engaged as a common carrier for
hire, in interstate or foreign communication by wire or radio or
in interstate or foreign radio transmission of energy, except
where reference is made to common carriers not subject to this
Act; but a person engaged in radio broadcasting shall not, inso-
far as such person is so engaged, be deemed a common carrier.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
4Sec. 3 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(12) CONNECTING CARRIER.—The term ‘‘connecting carrier’’
means a carrier described in clauses (2), (3), or (4) of section
2(b).(13) CONSTRUCTION PERMIT.—The term ‘‘construction per-
mit’’ or ‘‘permit for construction’’ means that instrument of au-
thorization required by this Act or the rules and regulations of
the Commission made pursuant to this Act for the construction
of a station, or the installation of apparatus, for the trans-
mission of energy, or communications, or signals by radio, by
whatever name the instrument may be designated by the Com-
mission.
(14) CONSUMER GENERATED MEDIA.—The term ‘‘consumer
generated media’’ means content created and made available
by consumers to online websites and services on the Internet,
including video, audio, and multimedia content.
(15) CORPORATION.—The term ‘‘corporation’’ includes any
corporation, joint-stock company, or association.
(16) CUSTOMER PREMISES EQUIPMENT.—The term ‘‘cus-
tomer premises equipment’’ means equipment employed on the
premises of a person (other than a carrier) to originate, route,
or terminate telecommunications.
(17) DIALING PARITY.—The term ‘‘dialing parity’’ means
that a person that is not an affiliate of a local exchange carrier
is able to provide telecommunications services in such a man-
ner that customers have the ability to route automatically,
without the use of any access code, their telecommunications
to the telecommunications services provider of the customer’s
designation from among 2 or more telecommunications services
providers (including such local exchange carrier).
(18) DISABILITY.—The term ‘‘disability’’ has the meaning
given such term under section 3 of the Americans with Disabil-
ities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).
(19) ELECTRONIC MESSAGING SERVICE.—The term ‘‘elec-
tronic messaging service’’ means a service that provides real-
time or near real-time non-voice messages in text form be-
tween individuals over communications networks.
(20) EXCHANGE ACCESS.—The term ‘‘exchange access’’
means the offering of access to telephone exchange services or
facilities for the purpose of the origination or termination of
telephone toll services.
(21) FOREIGN COMMUNICATION.—The term ‘‘foreign commu-
nication’’ or ‘‘foreign transmission’’ means communication or
transmission from or to any place in the United States to or
from a foreign country, or between a station in the United
States and a mobile station located outside the United States.
(22) GREAT LAKES AGREEMENT.—The term ‘‘Great Lakes
Agreement’’ means the Agreement for the Promotion of Safety
on the Great Lakes by Means of Radio in force and the regula-
tions referred to therein.
(23) HARBOR.—The term ‘‘harbor’’ or ‘‘port’’ means any
place to which ships may resort for shelter or to load or unload
passengers or goods, or to obtain fuel, water, or supplies. This
term shall apply to such places whether proclaimed public or
not and whether natural or artifical.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
5 Sec. 3COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(24) INFORMATION SERVICE.—The term ‘‘information serv-
ice’’ means the offering of a capability for generating, acquir-
ing, storing, transforming, processing, retrieving, utilizing, or
making available information via telecommunications, and in-
cludes electronic publishing, but does not include any use of
any such capability for the management, control, or operation
of a telecommunications system or the management of a tele-
communications service.
(25) INTERCONNECTED VOIP SERVICE.—The term ‘‘inter-
connected VoIP service’’ has the meaning given such term
under section 9.3 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as
such section may be amended from time to time.
(26) INTERLATA SERVICE.—The term ‘‘interLATA service’’
means telecommunications between a point located in a local
access and transport area and a point located outside such
area.
(27) INTEROPERABLE VIDEO CONFERENCING SERVICE.—The
term ‘‘interoperable video conferencing service’’ means a serv-
ice that provides real-time video communications, including
audio, to enable users to share information of the user’s choos-
ing.
(28) I NTERSTATE COMMUNICATION.—The term ‘‘interstate
communication’’ or ‘‘interstate transmission’’ means commu-
nication or transmission (A) from any State, Territory, or pos-
session of the United States (other than the Canal Zone), or
the District of Columbia, to any other State, Territory, or pos-
session of the United States (other than the Canal Zone), or
the District of Columbia, (B) from or to the United States to
or from the Canal Zone, insofar as such communication or
transmission takes place within the United States, or (C) be-
tween points within the United States but through a foreign
country; but shall not, with respect to the provisions of title II
of this Act (other than section 223 thereof), include wire or
radio communication between points in the same State, Terri-
tory, or possession of the United States, or the District of Co-
lumbia, through any place outside thereof, if such communica-
tion is regulated by a State commission.
(29) LAND STATION.—The term ‘‘land station’’ means a sta-
tion, other than a mobile station, used for radio communication
with mobile stations.
(30) LICENSEE.—The term ‘‘licensee’’ means the holder of a
radio station license granted or continued in force under au-
thority of this Act.
(31) LOCAL ACCESS AND TRANSPORT AREA.—The term ‘‘local
access and transport area’’ or ‘‘LATA’’ means a contiguous geo-
graphic area—
(A) established before the date of enactment of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 by a Bell operating com-
pany such that no exchange area includes points within
more than 1 metropolitan statistical area, consolidated
metropolitan statistical area, or State, except as expressly
permitted under the AT&T Consent Decree; or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
6Sec. 3 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) established or modified by a Bell operating com-
pany after such date of enactment and approved by the
Commission.
(32) LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER.—The term ‘‘local exchange
carrier’’ means any person that is engaged in the provision of
telephone exchange service or exchange access. Such term does
not include a person insofar as such person is engaged in the
provision of a commercial mobile service under section 332(c),
except to the extent that the Commission finds that such serv-
ice should be included in the definition of such term.
(33) MOBILE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘mobile service’’ means a
radio communication service carried on between mobile sta-
tions or receivers and land stations, and by mobile stations
communicating among themselves, and includes (A) both one-
way and two-way radio communication services, (B) a mobile
service which provides a regularly interacting group of base,
mobile, portable, and associated control and relay stations
(whether licensed on an individual, cooperative, or multiple
basis) for private one-way or two-way land mobile radio com-
munications by eligible users over designated areas of oper-
ation, and (C) any service for which a license is required in a
personal communications service established pursuant to the
proceeding entitled ‘‘Amendment to the Commission’s Rules to
Establish New Personal Communications Services’’ (GEN
Docket No. 90–314; ET Docket No. 92–100), or any successor
proceeding.
(34) MOBILE STATION.—The term ‘‘mobile station’’ means a
radio-communication station capable of being moved and which
ordinarily does move.
(35) NETWORK ELEMENT.—The term ‘‘network element’’
means a facility or equipment used in the provision of a tele-
communications service. Such term also includes features,
functions, and capabilities that are provided by means of such
facility or equipment, including subscriber numbers, databases,
signaling systems, and information sufficient for billing and
collection or used in the transmission, routing, or other provi-
sion of a telecommunications service.
(36) NON-INTERCONNECTED VOIP SERVICE.—The term ‘‘non-
interconnected VoIP service’’—
(A) means a service that—
(i) enables real-time voice communications that
originate from or terminate to the user’s location using
Internet protocol or any successor protocol; and
(ii) requires Internet protocol compatible customer
premises equipment; and
(B) does not include any service that is an inter-
connected VoIP service.
(37) NUMBER PORTABILITY.—The term ‘‘number portability’’
means the ability of users of telecommunications services to re-
tain, at the same location, existing telecommunications num-
bers without impairment of quality, reliability, or convenience
when switching from one telecommunications carrier to an-
other.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
7 Sec. 3COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(38)(A) OPERATOR.—The term ‘‘operator’’ on a ship of the
United States means, for the purpose of parts II and III of title
III of this Act, a person holding a radio operator’s license of the
proper class as prescribed and issued by the Commission.
(B) ‘‘Operator’’ on a foreign ship means, for the purpose of
part II of title III of this Act, a person holding a certificate as
such of the proper class complying with the provision of the
radio regulations annexed to the International Telecommuni-
cation Convention in force, or complying with an agreement or
treaty between the United States and the country in which the
ship is registered.
(39) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ includes an individual,
partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, or corpora-
tion.
(40) RADIO COMMUNICATION.—The term ‘‘radio communica-
tion’’ or ‘‘communication by radio’’ means the transmission by
radio of writing, signs, signals, pictures, and sounds of all
kinds, including all instrumentalities, facilities, apparatus, and
services (among other things, the receipt, forwarding, and de-
livery of communications) incidental to such transmission.
(41)(A) RADIO OFFICER.—The term ‘‘radio officer’’ on a ship
of the United States means, for the purpose of part II of title
III of this Act, a person holding at least a first or second class
radiotelegraph operator’s license as prescribed and issued by
the Commission. When such person is employed to operate a
radiotelegraph station aboard a ship of the United States, he
is also required to be licensed as a ‘‘radio officer’’ in accordance
with the Act of May 12, 1948 (46 U.S.C. 229a–h).
(B) ‘‘Radio officer’’ on a foreign ship means, for the purpose
of part II of title III of this Act, a person holding at least a first
or second class radiotelegraph operator’s certificate complying
with the provisions of the radio regulations annexed to the
International Telecommunication Convention in force.
(42) RADIO STATION.—The term ‘‘radio station’’ or ‘‘station’’
means a station equipped to engage in radio communication or
radio transmission of energy.
(43) RADIOTELEGRAPH AUTO ALARM.—The term ‘‘radio-
telegraph auto alarm’’ on a ship of the United States subject
to the provisions of part II of title III of this Act means an
automatic alarm receiving apparatus which responds to the ra-
diotelegraph alarm signal and has been approved by the Com-
mission. ‘‘Radiotelegraph auto alarm’’ on a foreign ship means
an automatic alarm receiving apparatus which responds to the
radiotelegraph alarm signal and has been approved by the gov-
ernment of the country in which the ship is registered: Pro-
vided, That the United States and the country in which the
ship is registered are parties to the same treaty, convention, or
agreement prescribing the requirements for such apparatus.
Nothing in this Act or in any other provision of law shall be
construed to require the recognition of a radiotelegraph auto
alarm as complying with part II of title III of this Act, on a
foreign ship subject to such part, where the country in which
the ship is registered and the United States are not parties to
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
8Sec. 3 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the same treaty, convention, or agreements prescribing the re-
quirements for such apparatus.
(44) RURAL TELEPHONE COMPANY.—The term ‘‘rural tele-
phone company’’ means a local exchange carrier operating enti-
ty to the extent that such entity—
(A) provides common carrier service to any local ex-
change carrier study area that does not include either—
(i) any incorporated place of 10,000 inhabitants or
more, or any part thereof, based on the most recently
available population statistics of the Bureau of the
Census; or
(ii) any territory, incorporated or unincorporated,
included in an urbanized area, as defined by the Bu-
reau of the Census as of August 10, 1993;
(B) provides telephone exchange service, including ex-
change access, to fewer than 50,000 access lines;
(C) provides telephone exchange service to any local
exchange carrier study area with fewer than 100,000 ac-
cess lines; or
(D) has less than 15 percent of its access lines in com-
munities of more than 50,000 on the date of enactment of
the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(45) SAFETY CONVENTION.—The term ‘‘safety convention’’
means the International Convention for the Safety of Life at
Sea in force and the regulations referred to therein.
(46)(A) SHIP.—The term ‘‘ship’’ or ‘‘vessel’’ includes every
description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance, except
aircraft, used or capable of being used as a means of transpor-
tation on water, whether or not it is actually afloat.
(B) A ship shall be considered a passenger ship if it carries
or is licensed or certificated to carry more than twelve pas-
sengers.
(C) A cargo ship means any ship not a passenger ship.
(D) A passenger is any person carried on board a ship or
vessel except (1) the officers and crew actually employed to
man and operate the ship, (2) persons employed to carry on the
business of the ship, and (3) persons on board a ship when
they are carried, either because of the obligation laid upon the
master to carry shipwrecked, distressed, or other persons in
like or similar situations or by reason of any circumstance over
which neither the master, the owner, nor the charterer (if any)
has control.
(E) ‘‘Nuclear ship’’ means a ship provided with a nuclear
powerplant.
(47) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ includes the District of Co-
lumbia and the Territories and possessions.
(48) STATE COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘State commission’’
means the commission, board, or official (by whatever name
designated) which under the laws of any State has regulatory
jurisdiction with respect to intrastate operations of carriers.
(49) STATION LICENSE.—The term ‘‘station license,’’‘‘radio
station license,’’ or ‘‘license’’ means that instrument of author-
ization required by this Act or the rules and regulations of the
Commission made pursuant to this Act, for the use or oper-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
9 Sec. 3COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ation of apparatus for transmission of energy, or communica-
tions, or signals by radio by whatever name the instrument
may be designated by the Commission.
(50) TELECOMMUNICATIONS.—The term ‘‘telecommuni-
cations’’ means the transmission, between or among points
specified by the user, of information of the user’s choosing,
without change in the form or content of the information as
sent and received.
(51) TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER.—The term ‘‘tele-
communications carrier’’ means any provider of telecommuni-
cations services, except that such term does not include
aggregators of telecommunications services (as defined in sec-
tion 226). A telecommunications carrier shall be treated as a
common carrier under this Act only to the extent that it is en-
gaged in providing telecommunications services, except that
the Commission shall determine whether the provision of fixed
and mobile satellite service shall be treated as common car-
riage.
(52) TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.—The term ‘‘tele-
communications equipment’’ means equipment, other than cus-
tomer premises equipment, used by a carrier to provide tele-
communications services, and includes software integral to
such equipment (including upgrades).
(53) TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.—The term ‘‘tele-
communications service’’ means the offering of telecommuni-
cations for a fee directly to the public, or to such classes of
users as to be effectively available directly to the public, re-
gardless of the facilities used.
(54) T ELEPHONE EXCHANGE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘telephone
exchange service’’ means (A) service within a telephone ex-
change, or within a connected system of telephone exchanges
within the same exchange area operated to furnish to sub-
scribers intercommunicating service of the character ordinarily
furnished by a single exchange, and which is covered by the ex-
change service charge, or (B) comparable service provided
through a system of switches, transmission equipment, or
other facilities (or combination thereof) by which a subscriber
can originate and terminate a telecommunications service.
(55) T ELEPHONE TOLL SERVICE.—The term ‘‘telephone toll
service’’ means telephone service between stations in different
exchange areas for which there is made a separate charge not
included in contracts with subscribers for exchange service.
(56) TELEVISION SERVICE.—
(A) ANALOG TELEVISION SERVICE.—The term ‘‘analog
television service’’ means television service provided pursu-
ant to the transmission standards prescribed by the Com-
mission in section 73.682(a) of its regulations (47 C.F.R.
73.682(a)).
(B) DIGITAL TELEVISION SERVICE.—The term ‘‘digital
television service’’ means television service provided pursu-
ant to the transmission standards prescribed by the Com-
mission in section 73.682(d) of its regulations (47 C.F.R.
73.682(d)).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
10Sec. 4 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(57) TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY BY RADIO.—The term
‘‘transmission of energy by radio’’ or ‘‘radio transmission of en-
ergy’’ includes both such transmission and all instrumental-
ities, facilities, and services incidental to such transmission.
(58) UNITED STATES.—The term ‘‘United States’’ means the
several States and Territories, the District of Columbia, and
the possessions of the United States, but does not include the
Canal Zone.
(59) WIRE COMMUNICATION.—The term ‘‘wire communica-
tion’’ or ‘‘communication by wire’’ means the transmission of
writing, signs, signals, pictures, and sounds of all kinds by aid
of wire, cable, or other like connection between the points of or-
igin and reception of such transmission, including all instru-
mentalities, facilities, apparatus, and services (among other
things, the receipt, forwarding, and delivery of communica-
tions) incidental to such transmission.
SEC. 4. ø47 U.S.C. 154¿ PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE COMMISSION.
(a) The Federal Communications Commission (in this Act re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Commission’’) shall be composed of five Commis-
sioners appointed by the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, one of whom the President shall designate
as chairman.
(b)(1) Each member of the Commission shall be a citizen of the
United States.
(2)(A) No member of the Commission or person employed by
the Commission shall—
(i) be financially interested in any company or other entity
engaged in the manufacture or sale of telecommunications
equipment which is subject to regulation by the Commission;
(ii) be financially interested in any company or other entity
engaged in the business of communication by wire or radio or
in the use of the electromagnetic spectrum;
(iii) be financially interested in any company or other enti-
ty which controls any company or other entity specified in
clause (i) or clause (ii), or which derives a significant portion
of its total income from ownership of stocks, bonds, or other se-
curities of any such company or other entity; or
(iv) be employed by, hold any official relation to, or own
any stocks, bonds, or other securities of, any person signifi-
cantly regulated by the Commission under this Act;
except that the prohibitions established in this subparagraph shall
apply only to financial interests in any company or other entity
which has a significant interest in communications, manufacturing,
or sales activities which are subject to regulation by the Commis-
sion.
(B)(i) The Commission shall have authority to waive, from time
to time, the application of the prohibitions established in subpara-
graph (A) to persons employed by the Commission if the Commis-
sion determines that the financial interests of a person which are
involved in a particular case are minimal, except that such waiver
authority shall be subject to the provisions of section 208 of title
18, United States Code. The waiver authority established in this
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
11 Sec. 4COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
subparagraph shall not apply with respect to members of the Com-
mission.
(ii) In any case in which the Commission exercises the waiver
authority established in this subparagraph, the Commission shall
publish notice of such action in the Federal Register.
(3) The Commission, in determining whether a company or
other entity has a significant interest in communications, manufac-
turing, or sales activities which are subject to regulation by the
Commission, shall consider (without excluding other relevant fac-
tors)— (A) the revenues, investments, profits, and managerial ef-
forts directed to the related communications, manufacturing, or
sales activities of the company or other entity involved, as com-
pared to the other aspects of the business of such company or
other entity;
(B) the extent to which the Commission regulates and
oversees the activities of such company or other entity;
(C) the degree to which the economic interests of such com-
pany or other entity may be affected by any action of the Com-
mission; and
(D) the perceptions held by the public regarding the busi-
ness activities of such company or other entity.
(4) Members of the Commission shall not engage in any other
business, vocation, profession, or employment while serving as such
members.
(5) The maximum number of commissioners who may be mem-
bers of the same political party shall be a number equal to the
least number of commissioners which constitutes a majority of the
full membership of the Commission.
(c)(1) A commissioner—
(A) shall be appointed for a term of 5 years;
(B) except as provided in subparagraph (C), may continue
to serve after the expiration of the fixed term of office of the
commissioner until a successor is appointed and has been con-
firmed and taken the oath of office; and
(C) may not continue to serve after the expiration of the
session of Congress that begins after the expiration of the fixed
term of office of the commissioner.
(2) Any person chosen to fill a vacancy in the Commission—
(A) shall be appointed for the unexpired term of the com-
missioner that the person succeeds;
(B) except as provided in subparagraph (C), may continue
to serve after the expiration of the fixed term of office of the
commissioner that the person succeeds until a successor is ap-
pointed and has been confirmed and taken the oath of office;
and (C) may not continue to serve after the expiration of the
session of Congress that begins after the expiration of the fixed
term of office of the commissioner that the person succeeds.
(3) No vacancy in the Commission shall impair the right of the
remaining commissioners to exercise all the powers of the Commis-
sion.(d) Each Commissioner shall receive an annual salary at the
annual rate payable from time to time for level IV of the Executive
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
12Sec. 4 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Schedule, payable in monthly installments. The Chairman of the
Commission, during the period of his service as Chairman, shall re-
ceive an annual salary at the annual rate payable from time to
time for level III of the Executive Schedule.
(e) The principal office of the Commission shall be in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, where its general sessions shall be held; but
whenever the convenience of the public or of the parties may be
promoted or delay or expense prevented thereby, the Commission
may hold special sessions in any part of the United States.
(f)(1) The Commission shall have authority, subject to the pro-
visions of the civil-service laws and the Classification Act of 1949,
as amended, to appoint such officers, engineers, accountants, attor-
neys, inspectors, examiners, and other employees as are necessary
in the exercise of its functions.
(2) Without regard to the civil-service laws, but subject to the
Classification Act of 1949, each commissioner may appoint three
professional assistants and a secretary, each of whom shall perform
such duties as such commissioner shall direct. In addition, the
chairman of the Commission may appoint, without regard to the
civil-service laws, but subject to the Classification Act of 1949, an
administrative assistant who shall perform such duties as the
chairman shall direct.
(3) The Commission shall fix a reasonable rate of extra com-
pensation for overtime services of engineers in charge and radio en-
gineers of the Field Engineering and Monitoring Bureau of the
Federal Communications Commission, who may be required to re-
main on duty between the hours of 5 o’clock postmeridian and 8
o’clock antemeridian or on Sundays or holidays to perform services
in connection with the inspection of ship radio equipment and ap-
paratus for the purposes of part II of title III of this Act or the
Great Lakes Agreement, on the basis of one-half day’s additional
pay for each two hours or fraction thereof of at least one hour that
the overtime extends beyond 5 o’clock postmeridian (but not to ex-
ceed two and one-half days’ pay for the full period from 5 o’clock
postmeridian to 8 o’clock antemeridian) and two additional days’
pay for Sunday or holiday duty. The said extra compensation for
overtime services shall be paid by the master, owner, or agent of
such vessel to the local United States collector of customs or his
representative, who shall deposit such collection into the Treasury
of the United States to an appropriately designated receipt account:
Provided, That the amounts of such collections received by the said
collector of customs or his representatives shall be covered into the
Treasury as miscellaneous receipts; and the payments of such extra
compensation to the several employees entitled thereto shall be
made from the annual appropriations for salaries and expenses of
the Commission: Provided further, That to the extent that the an-
nual appropriations which are hereby authorized to be made from
the general fund of the Treasury are insufficient, there are hereby
authorized to be appropriated from the general fund of the Treas-
ury such additional amounts as may be necessary to the extent
that the amounts of such receipts are in excess of the amounts ap-
propriated: Provided further, That such extra compensation shall
be paid if such field employees have been ordered to report for duty
and have so reported whether the actual inspection of the radio
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
13 Sec. 4COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
equipment or apparatus takes place or not: And provided further,
That in those ports where customary working hours are other than
those hereinabove mentioned, the engineers in charge are vested
with authority to regulate the hours of such employees so as to
agree with prevailing working hours in said ports where inspec-
tions are to be made, but nothing contained in this proviso shall
be construed in any manner to alter the length of a working day
for the engineers in charge and radio engineers or the overtime pay
herein fixed: and Provided further, That, in the alternative, an en-
tity designated by the Commission may make the inspections re-
ferred to in this paragraph.
(4)(A) The Commission, for purposes of preparing or admin-
istering any examination for an amateur station operator license,
may accept and employ the voluntary and uncompensated services
of any individual who holds an amateur station operator license of
a higher class than the class of license for which the examination
is being prepared or administered. In the case of examinations for
the highest class of amateur station operator license, the Commis-
sion may accept and employ such services of any individual who
holds such class of license.
(B)(i) The Commission, for purposes of monitoring violations of
any provision of this Act (and of any regulation prescribed by the
Commission under this Act) relating to the amateur radio service,
may—
(I) recruit and train any individual licensed by the Com-
mission to operate an amateur station; and
(II) accept and employ the voluntary and uncompensated
services of such individual.
(ii) The Commission, for purposes of recruiting and training in-
dividuals under clause (i) and for purposes of screening, anno-
tating, and summarizing violation reports referred under clause (i),
may accept and employ the voluntary and uncompensated services
of any amateur station operator organization.
(iii) The functions of individuals recruited and trained under
this subparagraph shall be limited to—
(I) the detection of improper amateur radio transmissions;
(II) the conveyance to Commission personnel of informa-
tion which is essential to the enforcement of this Act (or regu-
lations prescribed by the Commission under this Act) relating
to the amateur radio service; and
(III) issuing advisory notices, under the general direction
of the Commission, to persons who apparently have violated
any provision of this Act (or regulations prescribed by the Com-
mission under this Act) relating to the amateur radio service.
Nothing in this clause shall be construed to grant individuals re-
cruited and trained under this subparagraph any authority to issue
sanctions to violators or to take any enforcement action other than
any action which the Commission may prescribe by rule.
(C)(i) The Commission, for purposes of monitoring violations of
any provision of this Act (and of any regulation prescribed by the
Commission under this Act) relating to the citizens band radio
service, may—
(I) recruit and train any citizens band radio operator; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
14Sec. 4 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(II) accept and employ the voluntary and uncompensated
services of such operator.
(ii) The Commission, for purposes of recruiting and training in-
dividuals under clause (i) and for purposes of screening, anno-
tating, and summarizing violation reports referred under clause (i),
may accept and employ the voluntary and uncompensated services
of any citizens band radio operator organization. The Commission,
in accepting and employing services of individuals under this sub-
paragraph, shall seek to achieve a broad representation of individ-
uals and organizations interested in citizens band radio operation.
(iii) The functions of individuals recruited and trained under
this subparagraph shall be limited to—
(I) the detection of improper citizens band radio trans-
missions;
(II) the conveyance to Commission personnel of informa-
tion which is essential to the enforcement of this Act (or regu-
lations prescribed by the Commission under this Act) relating
to the citizens band radio service; and
(III) issuing advisory notices, under the general direction
of the Commission, to persons who apparently have violated
any provision of this Act (or regulations prescribed by the Com-
mission under this Act) relating to the citizens band radio serv-
ice.
Nothing in this clause shall be construed to grant individuals re-
cruited and trained under this subparagraph any authority to issue
sanctions to violators or to take any enforcement action other than
any action which the Commission may prescribe by rule.
(D) The Commission shall have the authority to endorse certifi-
cation of individuals to perform transmitter installation, operation,
maintenance, and repair duties in the private land mobile services
and fixed services (as defined by the Commission by rule) if such
certification programs are conducted by organizations or commit-
tees which are representative of the users in those services and
which consist of individuals who are not officers or employees of
the Federal Government.
(E) The authority of the Commission established in this para-
graph shall not be subject to or affected by the provisions of part
III of title 5, United States Code, or section 3679(b) of the Revised
Statutes (31 U.S.C. 665(b)).
(F) Any person who provides services under this paragraph
shall not be considered, by reason of having provided such services,
a Federal employee.
(G) The Commission, in accepting and employing services of in-
dividuals under subparagraphs (A) and (B), shall seek to achieve
a broad representation of individuals and organizations interested
in amateur station operation.
(H) The Commission may establish rules of conduct and other
regulations governing the service of individuals under this para-
graph.
(I) With respect to the acceptance of voluntary uncompensated
services for the preparation, processing, or administration of exami-
nations for amateur station operator licenses, pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) of this paragraph, individuals, or organizations which
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
15 Sec. 4COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
provide or coordinate such authorized volunteer services may re-
cover from examinees reimbursement for out-of-pocket costs.
(5)(A) The Commission, for purposes of preparing and admin-
istering any examination for a commercial radio operator license or
endorsement, may accept and employ the services of persons that
the Commission determines to be qualified. Any person so em-
ployed may not receive compensation for such services, but may re-
cover from examinees such fees as the Commission permits, consid-
ering such factors as public service and cost estimates submitted
by such person.
(B) The Commission may prescribe regulations to select, over-
see, sanction, and dismiss any person authorized under this para-
graph to be employed by the Commission.
(C) Any person who provides services under this paragraph or
who provides goods in connection with such services shall not, by
reason of having provided such service or goods, be considered a
Federal or special government employee.
(g)(1) The Commission may make such expenditures (including
expenditures for rent and personal services at the seat of govern-
ment and elsewhere, for office supplies, lawbooks, periodicals, and
books of reference, for printing and binding, for land for use as
sites for radio monitoring stations and related facilities, including
living quarters where necessary in remote areas, for the construc-
tion of such stations and facilities, and for the improvement, fur-
nishing, equipping, and repairing of such stations and facilities and
of laboratories and other related facilities (including construction of
minor subsidiary buildings and structures not exceeding $25,000 in
any one instance) used in connection with technical research activi-
ties), as may be necessary for the execution of the functions vested
in the Commission and as may be appropriated for by the Congress
in accordance with the authorizations of appropriations established
in section 6. All expenditures of the Commission, including all nec-
essary expenses for transportation incurred by the commissioners
or by their employees, under their orders, in making any investiga-
tion or upon any official business in any other places than in the
city of Washington, shall be allowed and paid on the presentation
of itemized vouchers therefor approved by the chairman of the
Commission or by such other members or officer thereof as may be
designated by the Commission for that purpose.
øParagraph (2) repealed by section 402(i)(1)(B) of division P of
Public Law 115–141.¿
(3)(A) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in further-
ance of its functions the Commission is authorized to accept, hold,
administer, and use unconditional gifts, donations, and bequests of
real, personal, and other property (including voluntary and uncom-
pensated services, as authorized by section 3109 of title 5, United
States Code).
(B) The Commission, for purposes of providing radio club and
military-recreational call signs, may utilize the voluntary, uncom-
pensated, and unreimbursed services of amateur radio organiza-
tions authorized by the Commission that have tax-exempt status
under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
16Sec. 5 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(C) For the purpose of Federal law on income taxes, estate
taxes, and gift taxes, property or services accepted under the au-
thority of subparagraph (A) shall be deemed to be a gift, bequest,
or devise to the United States.
(D) The Commission shall promulgate regulations to carry out
the provisions of this paragraph. Such regulations shall include
provisions to preclude the acceptance of any gift, bequest, or dona-
tion that would create a conflict of interest or the appearance of a
conflict of interest.
(h) Three members of the Commission shall constitute a
quorum thereof. The Commission shall have an official seal which
shall be judicially noticed.
(i) The Commission may perform any and all acts, make such
rules and regulations, and issue such orders, not inconsistent with
this Act, as may be necessary in the execution of its functions.
(j) The Commission may conduct its proceedings in such man-
ner as will best conduce to the proper dispatch of business and to
the ends of justice. No commissioner shall participate in any hear-
ing or proceeding in which he has a pecuniary interest. Any party
may appear before the Commission and be heard in person or by
attorney. Every vote and official act the Commission shall be en-
tered of record, and its proceedings shall be public upon the re-
quest of any party interested. The Commission is authorized to
withhold publication of records or proceedings containing secret in-
formation affecting the national defense.
(k) All reports of investigations made by the Commission shall
be entered of record, and a copy thereof shall be furnished to the
party who may have complained, and to any common carrier or li-
censee that may have been complained of.
(l) The Commission shall provide for the publication of its re-
ports and decisions in such form and manner as may be best adapt-
ed for public information and use, and such authorized publications
shall be competent evidence of the reports and decisions of the
Commission therein contained in all courts of the United States
and of the several States without any further proof or authentica-
tion thereof.
(m) Rates of compensation of persons appointed under this sec-
tion shall be subject to the reduction applicable to officers and em-
ployees of the Federal Government generally.
(n) For the purpose of obtaining maximum effectiveness from
the use of radio and wire communications in connection with safety
of life and property, the Commission shall investigate and study all
phases of the problem and the best methods of obtaining the co-
operation and coordination of these systems.
SEC. 5. ø47 U.S.C. 155¿ ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONING OF THE
COMMISSION.
(a) The member of the Commission designated by the Presi-
dent as chairman shall be the chief executive officer of the Com-
mission. It shall be his duty to preside at all meetings and sessions
of the Commission, to represent the Commission in all matters re-
lating to legislation and legislative reports, except that any com-
missioner may present his own or minority views or supplemental
reports, to represent the Commission in all matters requiring con-
ferences or communications with other governmental officers, de-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
17 Sec. 5COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
partments or agencies, and generally to coordinate and organize
the work of the Commission in such manner as to promote prompt
and efficient disposition of all matters within the jurisdiction of the
Commission. In the case of a vacancy in the office of the chairman
of the Commission, or the absence or inability of the chairman to
serve, the Commission may temporarily designate one of its mem-
bers to act as chairman until the cause or circumstance requiring
such designation shall have been eliminated or corrected.
(b) From time to time as the Commission may find necessary,
the Commission shall organize its staff into (1) integrated bureaus,
to function on the basis of the Commission’s principal workload op-
erations, and (2) such other divisional organizations as the Com-
mission may deem necessary. Each such integrated bureau shall
include such legal, engineering, accounting, administrative, clerical,
and other personnel as the Commission may determine to be nec-
essary to perform its functions.
(c)(1) When necessary to the proper functioning of the Commis-
sion and the prompt and orderly conduct of its business, the Com-
mission may, by published rule or by order, delegate any of its
functions (except functions granted to the Commission by this para-
graph and by paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) of this subsection and ex-
cept any action referred to in sections 204(a)(2), 208(b), and 405(b))
to a panel of commissioners, an individual commissioner, an em-
ployee board, or an individual employee, including functions with
respect to hearing, determining, ordering, certifying, reporting, or
otherwise acting as to any work, business, or matter; except that
in delegating review functions to employees in cases of adjudication
(as defined in the Administrative Procedure Act), the delegation in
any such case may be made only to an employee board consisting
of two or more employees referred to in paragraph (8). Any such
rule or order may be adopted, amended, or rescinded only by a vote
of a majority of the members of the Commission then holding office.
Except for cases involving the authorization of service in the in-
structional television fixed service, or as otherwise provided in this
Act, nothing in this paragraph shall authorize the Commission to
provide for the conduct, by any person or persons other than per-
sons referred to in paragraph (2) or (3) of section 556(b) of title 5,
United States Code, of any hearing to which such section applies.
(2) As used in this subsection (d) the term ‘‘order, decision, re-
port, or action’’ does not include an initial, tentative, or rec-
ommended decision to which exceptions may be filed as provided in
section 409(b).
(3) Any order, decision, report, or action made or taken pursu-
ant to any such delegation, unless reviewed as provided in para-
graph (4), shall have the same force and effect, and shall be made,
evidenced, and enforced in the same manner, as orders, decisions,
reports, or other actions of the Commission.
(4) Any person aggrieved by any such order, decision, report or
action may file an application for review by the Commission within
such time and in such manner as the Commission shall prescribe,
and every such application shall be passed upon by the Commis-
sion. The Commission, on its own initiative, may review in whole
or in part, at such time and in such manner as it shall determine,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
18Sec. 5 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
any order, decision, report, or action made or taken pursuant to
any delegation under paragraph (1).
(5) In passing upon applications for review, the Commission
may grant, in whole or in part, or deny such applications without
specifying any reasons therefore. No such application for review
shall rely on questions of fact or law upon which the panel of com-
missioners, individual commissioner, employee board, or individual
employee has been afforded no opportunity to pass.
(6) If the Commission grants the application for review, it may
affirm, modify, or set aside the order, decision, report, or action, or
it may order a rehearing upon such order, decision, report, or ac-
tion in accordance with section 405.
(7) The filing of an application for review under this subsection
shall be a condition precedent to judicial review of any order, deci-
sion, report, or action made or taken pursuant to a delegation
under paragraph (1). The time within which a petition for review
must be filed in a proceeding to which section 402(a) applies, or
within which an appeal must be taken under section 402(b), shall
be computed from the date upon which public notice is given of or-
ders disposing of all applications for review filed in any case.
(8) The employees to whom the Commission may delegate re-
view functions in any case of adjudication (as defined in the Ad-
ministrative Procedure Act) shall be qualified, by reason of their
training, experience, and competence, to perform such review func-
tions, and shall perform no duties inconsistent with such review
functions. Such employees shall be in a grade classification or sal-
ary level commensurate with their important duties, and in no
event less than the grade classification or salary level of the em-
ployee or employees whose actions are to be reviewed. In the per-
formance of such review functions such employees shall be assigned
to cases in rotation so far as practicable and shall not be respon-
sible to or subject to the supervision or direction of any officer, em-
ployee, or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or
prosecuting functions for any agency.
(9) The secretary and seal of the Commission shall be the sec-
retary and seal of each panel of the Commission, each individual
commissioner, and each employee board or individual employee ex-
ercising functions delegated pursuant to paragraph (1) of this sub-
section.
(d) Meetings of the Commission shall be held at regular inter-
vals, not less frequently than once each calendar month, at which
times the functioning of the Commission and the handling of its
work load shall be reviewed and such orders shall be entered and
other action taken as may be necessary or appropriate to expedite
the prompt and orderly conduct of the business of the Commission
with the objective of rendering a final decision (1) within three
months from the date of filing in all original application, renewal,
and transfer cases in which it will not be necessary to hold a hear-
ing, and (2) within six months from the final date of the hearing
in all hearing cases.
(e) The Commission shall have a Managing Director who shall
be appointed by the Chairman subject to the approval of the Com-
mission. The Managing Director, under the supervision and direc-
tion of the Chairman, shall perform such administrative and execu-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
19 Sec. 8COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tive functions as the Chairman shall delegate. The Managing Di-
rector shall be paid at a rate equal to the rate then payable for
level V of the Executive Schedule.
SEC. 6. ø47 U.S.C. 156¿ AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—There are authorized to be appropriated
to the Commission to carry out the functions of the Commission
$333,118,000 for fiscal year 2019 and $339,610,000 for fiscal year
2020.
(b) OFFSETTING COLLECTIONS.—The sum appropriated in any
fiscal year to carry out the activities described in subsection (a), to
the extent and in the amounts provided for in Appropriations Acts,
shall be derived from fees authorized by section 9.
SEC. 7. ø47 U.S.C. 157¿ NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES.
(a) It shall be the policy of the United States to encourage the
provision of new technologies and services to the public. Any per-
son or party (other than the Commission) who opposes a new tech-
nology or service proposed to be permitted under this Act shall
have the burden to demonstrate that such proposal is inconsistent
with the public interest.
(b) The Commission shall determine whether any new tech-
nology or service proposed in a petition or application is in the pub-
lic interest within one year after such petition or application is
filed. If the Commission initiates its own proceeding for a new tech-
nology or service, such proceeding shall be completed within 12
months after it is initiated.
SEC. 8. ø47 U.S.C. 158¿ APPLICATION FEES.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY; ESTABLISHMENT OF SCHEDULE.—The
Commission shall assess and collect application fees at such rates
as the Commission shall establish in a schedule of application fees
to recover the costs of the Commission to process applications.
(b) ADJUSTMENT OF SCHEDULE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In every even-numbered year, the Com-
mission shall review the schedule of application fees estab-
lished under this section and, except as provided in paragraph
(2), set a new amount for each fee in the schedule that is equal
to the amount of the fee on the date when the fee was estab-
lished or the date when the fee was last amended under sub-
section (c), whichever is later—
(A) increased or decreased by the percentage change in
the Consumer Price Index during the period beginning on
such date and ending on the date of the review; and
(B) rounded to the nearest $5 increment.
(2) THRESHOLD FOR ADJUSTMENT.—The Commission may
not adjust a fee under paragraph (1) if—
(A) in the case of a fee the current amount of which
is less than $200, the adjustment would result in a change
in the current amount of less than $10; or
(B) in the case of a fee the current amount of which
is $200 or more, the adjustment would result in a change
in the current amount of less than 5 percent.
(3) CURRENT AMOUNT DEFINED.—In paragraph (2), the
term ‘‘current amount’’ means, with respect to a fee, the
amount of the fee on the date when the fee was established,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
20Sec. 9 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the date when the fee was last adjusted under paragraph (1),
or the date when the fee was last amended under subsection
(c), whichever is latest.
(c) AMENDMENTS TO SCHEDULE.—In addition to the adjust-
ments required by subsection (b), the Commission shall by rule
amend the schedule of application fees established under this sec-
tion if the Commission determines that the schedule requires
amendment—
(1) so that such fees reflect increases or decreases in the
costs of processing applications at the Commission; or
(2) so that such schedule reflects the consolidation or addi-
tion of new categories of applications.
(d) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) PARTIES TO WHICH FEES ARE NOT APPLICABLE.—The ap-
plication fees established under this section shall not be appli-
cable to—
(A) a governmental entity;
(B) a nonprofit entity licensed in the Local Govern-
ment, Police, Fire, Highway Maintenance, Forestry-Con-
servation, Public Safety, or Special Emergency Radio radio
services; or
(C) a noncommercial radio station or noncommercial
television station.
(2) COST OF COLLECTION.—If, in the judgment of the Com-
mission, the cost of collecting an application fee established
under this section would exceed the amount collected, the Com-
mission may by rule eliminate such fee.
(e) DEPOSIT OF COLLECTIONS.—Moneys received from applica-
tion fees established under this section shall be deposited in the
general fund of the Treasury.
SEC. 9. ø47 U.S.C. 159¿ REGULATORY FEES.
(a) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—The Commission shall assess and
collect regulatory fees to recover the costs of carrying out the activi-
ties described in section 6(a) only to the extent, and in the total
amounts, provided for in Appropriations Acts.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF SCHEDULE.—The Commission shall as-
sess and collect regulatory fees at such rates as the Commission
shall establish in a schedule of regulatory fees that will result in
the collection, in each fiscal year, of an amount that can reasonably
be expected to equal the amounts described in subsection (a) with
respect to such fiscal year.
(c) ADJUSTMENT OF SCHEDULE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—For each fiscal year, the Commission
shall by rule adjust the schedule of regulatory fees established
under this section to—
(A) reflect unexpected increases or decreases in the
number of units subject to the payment of such fees; and
(B) result in the collection of the amount required by
subsection (b).
(2) ROUNDING.—In making adjustments under this sub-
section, the Commission may round fees to the nearest $5 in-
crement.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
21 Sec. 9ACOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(d) AMENDMENTS TO SCHEDULE.—In addition to the adjust-
ments required by subsection (c), the Commission shall by rule
amend the schedule of regulatory fees established under this sec-
tion if the Commission determines that the schedule requires
amendment so that such fees reflect the full-time equivalent num-
ber of employees within the bureaus and offices of the Commission,
adjusted to take into account factors that are reasonably related to
the benefits provided to the payor of the fee by the Commission’s
activities. In making an amendment under this subsection, the
Commission may not change the total amount of regulatory fees re-
quired by subsection (b) to be collected in a fiscal year.
(e) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) PARTIES TO WHICH FEES ARE NOT APPLICABLE.—The reg-
ulatory fees established under this section shall not be applica-
ble to— (A) a governmental entity or nonprofit entity;
(B) an amateur radio operator licensee under part 97
of the Commission’s rules (47 CFR part 97); or
(C) a noncommercial radio station or noncommercial
television station.
(2) COST OF COLLECTION.—If, in the judgment of the Com-
mission, the cost of collecting a regulatory fee established
under this section from a party would exceed the amount col-
lected from such party, the Commission may exempt such
party from paying such fee.
(f) DEPOSIT OF COLLECTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Amounts received from fees authorized
by this section shall be deposited as an offsetting collection in,
and credited to, the account through which funds are made
available to carry out the activities described in section 6(a).
(2) DEPOSIT OF EXCESS COLLECTIONS.—Any regulatory fees
collected in excess of the total amount of fees provided for in
Appropriations Acts for a fiscal year shall be deposited in the
general fund of the Treasury of the United States for the sole
purpose of deficit reduction.
SEC. 9A. ø47 U.S.C. 159a¿ PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO APPLICATION
AND REGULATORY FEES.
(a) JUDICIAL REVIEW PROHIBITED.—Any adjustment or amend-
ment to a schedule of fees under subsection (b) or (c) of section 8
or subsection (c) or (d) of section 9 is not subject to judicial review.
(b) NOTICE TO CONGRESS.—The Commission shall transmit to
Congress notification—
(1) of any adjustment under section 8(b) or 9(c) imme-
diately upon the adoption of such adjustment; and
(2) of any amendment under section 8(c) or 9(d) not later
than 90 days before the effective date of such amendment.
(c) ENFORCEMENT.—
(1) PENALTIES FOR LATE PAYMENT.—The Commission shall
by rule prescribe an additional penalty for late payment of fees
under section 8 or 9. Such additional penalty shall be 25 per-
cent of the amount of the fee that was not paid in a timely
manner.
(2) INTEREST ON UNPAID FEES AND PENALTIES.—The Com-
mission shall charge interest, at a rate determined under sec-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
22Sec. 9A COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tion 3717 of title 31, United States Code, on a fee under section
8 or 9 or an additional penalty under this subsection that is
not paid in a timely manner. Such section 3717 shall not other-
wise apply with respect to such a fee or penalty.
(3) DISMISSAL OF APPLICATIONS OR FILINGS.—The Commis-
sion may dismiss any application or other filing for failure to
pay in a timely manner any fee under section 8 or 9 or any
interest or additional penalty under this subsection.
(4) REVOCATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In addition to or in lieu of the pen-
alties and dismissals authorized by this subsection, the
Commission may revoke any instrument of authorization
held by any licensee that has not paid in a timely manner
a regulatory fee assessed under section 9 or any related in-
terest or penalty.
(B) NOTICE.—Revocation action may be taken by the
Commission under this paragraph after notice of the Com-
mission’s intent to take such action is sent to the licensee
by registered mail, return receipt requested, at the licens-
ee’s last known address. The notice shall provide the li-
censee at least 30 days to either pay the fee, interest, and
any penalty or show cause why the fee, interest, or penalty
does not apply to the licensee or should otherwise be
waived or payment deferred.
(C) HEARING.—
(i) GENERALLY NOT REQUIRED.—A hearing is not
required under this paragraph unless the licensee’s re-
sponse presents a substantial and material question of
fact.
(ii) EVIDENCE AND BURDENS.—In any case where a
hearing is conducted under this paragraph, the hear-
ing shall be based on written evidence only, and the
burden of proceeding with the introduction of evidence
and the burden of proof shall be on the licensee.
(iii) COSTS.—Unless the licensee substantially pre-
vails in the hearing, the Commission may assess the
licensee for the costs of such hearing.
(D) OPPORTUNITY TO PAY PRIOR TO REVOCATION.—Any
Commission order adopted under this paragraph shall de-
termine the amount due, if any, and provide the licensee
with at least 30 days to pay that amount or have its au-
thorization revoked.
(E) FINALITY.—No order of revocation under this para-
graph shall become final until the licensee has exhausted
its right to judicial review of such order under section
402(b)(5).
(d) WAIVER, REDUCTION, AND DEFERMENT.—The Commission
may waive, reduce, or defer payment of a fee under section 8 or 9
or an interest charge or penalty under this section in any specific
instance for good cause shown, where such action would promote
the public interest.
(e) PAYMENT RULES.—The Commission shall by rule permit
payment—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
23 Sec. 10COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) in the case of fees under section 8 or 9 in large
amounts, by installments; and
(2) in the case of fees under section 8 or 9 in small
amounts, in advance for a number of years not to exceed the
term of the license held by the payor.
(f) ACCOUNTING SYSTEM.—The Commission shall develop ac-
counting systems necessary to make the amendments authorized
by sections 8(c) and 9(d).
SEC. 10. ø47 U.S.C. 160¿ COMPETITION IN PROVISION OF TELE-
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
(a) REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY.—Notwithstanding section
332(c)(1)(A) of this Act, the Commission shall forbear from applying
any regulation or any provision of this Act to a telecommunications
carrier or telecommunications service, or class of telecommuni-
cations carriers or telecommunications services, in any or some of
its or their geographic markets, if the Commission determines
that—
(1) enforcement of such regulation or provision is not nec-
essary to ensure that the charges, practices, classifications, or
regulations by, for, or in connection with that telecommuni-
cations carrier or telecommunications service are just and rea-
sonable and are not unjustly or unreasonably discriminatory;
(2) enforcement of such regulation or provision is not nec-
essary for the protection of consumers; and
(3) forbearance from applying such provision or regulation
is consistent with the public interest.
(b) COMPETITIVE EFFECT TO BE WEIGHED.—In making the de-
termination under subsection (a)(3), the Commission shall consider
whether forbearance from enforcing the provision or regulation will
promote competitive market conditions, including the extent to
which such forbearance will enhance competition among providers
of telecommunications services. If the Commission determines that
such forbearance will promote competition among providers of tele-
communications services, that determination may be the basis for
a Commission finding that forbearance is in the public interest.
(c) PETITION FOR FORBEARANCE.—Any telecommunications car-
rier, or class of telecommunications carriers, may submit a petition
to the Commission requesting that the Commission exercise the au-
thority granted under this section with respect to that carrier or
those carriers, or any service offered by that carrier or carriers.
Any such petition shall be deemed granted if the Commission does
not deny the petition for failure to meet the requirements for for-
bearance under subsection (a) within one year after the Commis-
sion receives it, unless the one-year period is extended by the Com-
mission. The Commission may extend the initial one-year period by
an additional 90 days if the Commission finds that an extension is
necessary to meet the requirements of subsection (a). The Commis-
sion may grant or deny a petition in whole or in part and shall ex-
plain its decision in writing.
(d) LIMITATION.—Except as provided in section 251(f), the Com-
mission may not forbear from applying the requirements of section
251(c) or 271 under subsection (a) of this section until it determines
that those requirements have been fully implemented.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
24Sec. 11 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(e) STATE ENFORCEMENT AFTER COMMISSION FORBEARANCE.—
A State commission may not continue to apply or enforce any provi-
sion of this Act that the Commission has determined to forbear
from applying under subsection (a).
SEC. 11. ø47 U.S.C. 161¿ REGULATORY REFORM.
(a) BIENNIAL REVIEW OF REGULATIONS.—In every even-num-
bered year (beginning with 1998), the Commission—
(1) shall review all regulations issued under this Act in ef-
fect at the time of the review that apply to the operations or
activities of any provider of telecommunications service; and
(2) shall determine whether any such regulation is no
longer necessary in the public interest as the result of mean-
ingful economic competition between providers of such service.
(b) EFFECT OF DETERMINATION.—The Commission shall repeal
or modify any regulation it determines to be no longer necessary
in the public interest.
SEC. 12. ø47 U.S.C. 162¿ ADDITIONAL RESEARCH AUTHORITIES OF THE
FCC.
In order to carry out the purposes of this Act, the Commission
may— (1) undertake research and development work in connec-
tion with any matter in relation to which the Commission has
jurisdiction; and
(2) promote the carrying out of such research and develop-
ment by others, or otherwise to arrange for such research and
development to be carried out by others.
SEC. 13. ø47 U.S.C. 163¿ COMMUNICATIONS MARKETPLACE REPORT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In the last quarter of every even-numbered
year, the Commission shall publish on its website and submit to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation of the Senate a report on the state of the communications
marketplace.
(b) CONTENTS.—Each report required by subsection (a) shall—
(1) assess the state of competition in the communications
marketplace, including competition to deliver voice, video,
audio, and data services among providers of telecommuni-
cations, providers of commercial mobile service (as defined in
section 332), multichannel video programming distributors (as
defined in section 602), broadcast stations, providers of sat-
ellite communications, Internet service providers, and other
providers of communications services;
(2) assess the state of deployment of communications capa-
bilities, including advanced telecommunications capability (as
defined in section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
(47 U.S.C. 1302)), regardless of the technology used for such
deployment;
(3) assess whether laws, regulations, regulatory practices
(whether those of the Federal Government, States, political
subdivisions of States, Indian tribes or tribal organizations (as
such terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Deter-
mination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)), or
foreign governments), or demonstrated marketplace practices
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
25 Sec. 201COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
pose a barrier to competitive entry into the communications
marketplace or to the competitive expansion of existing pro-
viders of communications services;
(4) describe the agenda of the Commission for the next 2-
year period for addressing the challenges and opportunities in
the communications marketplace that were identified through
the assessments under paragraphs (1) through (3); and
(5) describe the actions that the Commission has taken in
pursuit of the agenda described pursuant to paragraph (4) in
the previous report submitted under this section.
(c) EXTENSION.—If the President designates a Commissioner as
Chairman of the Commission during the last quarter of an even-
numbered year, the portion of the report required by subsection
(b)(4) may be published on the website of the Commission and sub-
mitted to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House
of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate as an addendum during the first
quarter of the following odd-numbered year.
(d) SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) ASSESSING COMPETITION.—In assessing the state of
competition under subsection (b)(1), the Commission shall con-
sider all forms of competition, including the effect of inter-
modal competition, facilities-based competition, and competi-
tion from new and emergent communications services, includ-
ing the provision of content and communications using the
Internet.
(2) ASSESSING DEPLOYMENT.—In assessing the state of de-
ployment under subsection (b)(2), the Commission shall com-
pile a list of geographical areas that are not served by any pro-
vider of advanced telecommunications capability.
(3) CONSIDERING SMALL BUSINESSES.—In assessing the
state of competition under subsection (b)(1) and regulatory bar-
riers under subsection (b)(3), the Commission shall consider
market entry barriers for entrepreneurs and other small busi-
nesses in the communications marketplace in accordance with
the national policy under section 257(b).
TITLE II—COMMON CARRIERS
PART I—COMMON CARRIER REGULATION
SEC. 201. ø47 U.S.C. 201¿ SERVICE AND CHARGES.
(a) It shall be the duty of every common carrier engaged in
interstate or foreign communication by wire or radio to furnish
such communication service upon reasonable request therefor; and,
in accordance with the orders of the Commission, in cases where
the Commission, after opportunity for hearing, finds such action
necessary or desirable in the public interest, to establish physical
connections with other carriers, to establish through routes and
charges applicable thereto and the divisions of such charges, and
to establish and provide facilities and regulations for operating
such through routes.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
26Sec. 202 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(b) All charges, practices, classifications, and regulations for
and in connection with such communication service, shall be just
and reasonable, and any such charge, practice, classification, or
regulation that is unjust or unreasonable is hereby declared to be
unlawful: Provided, That communications by wire or radio subject
to this Act may be classified into day, night, repeated, unrepeated,
letter, commercial, press, Government and such other classes as
the Commission may decide to be just and reasonable, and dif-
ferent charges may be made for the different classes of
comunications: Provided further, That nothing in this Act or in any
other provision of law shall be construed to prevent a common car-
rier subject to this Act from entering into or operating under any
contract with any common carrier not subject to this Act, for the
exchange of their services, if the Commission is of the opinion that
such contract is not contrary to the public interest: Provided fur-
ther, That nothing in this Act or in any other provision of law shall
prevent a common carrier subject to this Act from furnishing re-
ports of positions of ships at sea to newspapers of general circula-
tion, either at a nominal charge or without charge, provided the
name of such common carrier is displayed along with such ship po-
sition reports. The Commissioner may prescribe such rules and reg-
ulations as may be necessary in the public interest to carry out the
provisions of this Act.
SEC. 202. ø47 U.S.C. 202¿ DISCRIMINATION AND PREFERENCES.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any common carrier to make any
unjust or unreasonable discrimination in charges, practices, classi-
fications, regulations, facilities, or services for or in connection with
like communication service, directly or indirectly, by any means or
device, or to make or give any undue or unreasonable preference
or advantage to any particular person, class of persons, or locality,
or to subject any particular person, class of persons, or locality to
any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage.
(b) Charges or services, whenever referred to in this Act, in-
clude charges for, or services in connection with, the use of common
carrier lines of communication, whether derived from wire or radio
facilities, in chain broadcasting or incidental to radio communica-
tion of any kind.
(c) Any carrier who knowingly violates the provisions of this
section shall forfeit to the United States the sum of $6,000 for each
such offense and $300 for each and every day of the continuance
of such offense.
SEC. 203. ø47 U.S.C. 203¿ SCHEDULES OF CHARGES.
(a) Every common carrier, except connecting carriers, shall,
within such reasonable time as the Commission shall designate,
file with the Commission and print and keep open for public in-
spection schedules showing all charges for itself and its connecting
carriers for interstate and foreign wire or radio communication be-
tween the different points on its own system, and between points
on its own system and points on the system of its connecting car-
riers or points on the system of any other carrier subject to this Act
when a through route has been established, whether such charges
are joint or separate, and showing the classifications, practices, and
regulations affecting such charges. Such schedules shall contain
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
27 Sec. 204COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
such other information, and be printed in such form, and be posted
and kept open for public inspection in such places, as the Commis-
sion may by regulation require, and each such schedule shall give
notice of its effective date; and such common carrier shall furnish
such schedules to each of its connecting carriers, and such con-
necting carriers shall keep such schedules open for inspection in
such public places as the Commission may require.
(b)(1) No change shall be made in the charges, classifications,
regulations, or practices which have been so filed and published ex-
cept after one hundred and twenty days notice to the Commission
and to the public, which shall be published in such form and con-
tain such information as the Commission may by regulations pre-
scribe.
(2) The Commission may, in its discretion and for good cause
shown, modify any requirement made by or under the authority of
this section either in particular instances or by general order appli-
cable to special circumstances or conditions except that the Com-
mission may not require the notice period specified in paragraph
(1) to be more than one hundred and twenty days.
(c) No carrier, unless otherwise provided by or under authority
of this Act, shall engage or participate in such communication un-
less schedules have been filed and published in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and with the regulations made thereunder;
and no carrier shall (1) charge, demand, collect, or receive a greater
or less or different compensation, for such communication, or for
any service in connection therewith, between the points named in
any such schedule than the charges specified in the schedule then
in effect, or (2) refund or remit by any means or device any portion
of the charges so specified, or (3) extend to any person any privi-
leges or facilities, in such communication, or employ or enforce any
classifications, regulations, or practices affecting such charges, ex-
cept as specified in such schedule.
(d) The Commission may reject and refuse to file any schedule
entered for filing which does not provide and give lawful notice of
its effective date. Any schedule so rejected by the Commission shall
be void and its use shall be unlawful.
(e) In case of failure or refusal on the part of any carrier to
comply with the provisions of this section or of any regulation or
order made by the Commission thereunder, such carrier shall for-
feit to the United States the sum of $6,000 for each such offense,
and $300 for each and every day of the continuance of such offense.
SEC. 204. ø47 U.S.C. 204¿ HEARING AS TO LAWFULNESS OF NEW
CHARGES; SUSPENSION.
(a)(1) Whenever there is filed with the Commission any new or
revised charge, classification, regulation, or practice, the Commis-
sion may either upon complaint or upon its own initiative without
complaint, upon reasonable notice, enter upon a hearing concerning
the lawfulness thereof; and pending such hearing and the decision
thereon the Commission, upon delivering to the carrier or carriers
affected thereby a statement in writing of its reasons for such sus-
pension, may suspend the operation of such charge, classification,
regulation, or practice, in whole or in part but not for a longer pe-
riod than five months beyond the time when it would otherwise go
into effect; and after full hearing the Commission may make such
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
28Sec. 204 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
1 Indentation so in original; should be moved 2-ems to the left.
order with reference thereto as would be proper in a proceeding ini-
tiated after such charge, classification, regulation, or practice had
become effective. If the proceeding has not been concluded and an
order made within the period of the suspension, the proposed new
or revised charge, classification, regulation, or practice shall go into
effect at the end of such period; but in case of a proposed charge
for a new service or a revised charge, the Commission may by order
require the interested carrier or carriers to keep accurate account
of all amounts received by reason of such charge for a new service
or revised charge, specifying by whom and in whose behalf such
amounts are paid, and upon completion of the hearing and decision
may by further order require the interested carrier or carriers to
refund, with interest, to the persons in whose behalf such amounts
were paid, such portion of such charge for a new service or revised
charges as by its decision shall be found not justified. At any hear-
ing involving a new or revised charge, or a proposed new or revised
charge, the burden of proof to show that the new or revised charge,
or proposed charge, is just and reasonable shall be upon the car-
rier, and the Commission shall give to the hearing and decision of
such questions preference over all other questions pending before
it and decide the same as speedily as possible.
(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Commission
shall, with respect to any hearing under this section, issue an order
concluding such hearing within 5 months after the date that the
charge, classification, regulation, or practice subject to the hearing
becomes effective.
(B) The Commission shall, with respect to any such hearing
initiated prior to the date of enactment of this paragraph, issue an
order concluding the hearing not later than 12 months after such
date of enactment.
(C) Any order concluding a hearing under this section shall be
a final order and may be appealed under section 402(a).
(3) 1 A local exchange carrier may file with the Commission
a new or revised charge, classification, regulation, or practice
on a streamlined basis. Any such charge, classification, regula-
tion, or practice shall be deemed lawful and shall be effective
7 days (in the case of a reduction in rates) or 15 days (in the
case of an increase in rates) after the date on which it is filed
with the Commission unless the Commission takes action
under paragraph (1) before the end of that 7-day or 15-day pe-
riod, as is appropriate.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this sec-
tion, the Commission may allow part of a charge, classification,
regulation, or practice to go into effect, based upon a written show-
ing by the carrier or carriers affected, and an opportunity for writ-
ten comment thereon by affected persons, that such partial author-
ization is just, fair, and reasonable. Additionally, or in combination
with a partial authorization, the Commission, upon a similar show-
ing, may allow all or part of a charge, classification, regulation, or
practice to go into effect on a temporary basis pending further
order of the Commission. Authorizations of temporary new or in-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
29 Sec. 208COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
creased charges may include an accounting order of the type pro-
vided for in subsection (a).
SEC. 205. ø47 U.S.C. 205¿ COMMISSION AUTHORIZED TO PRESCRIBE
JUST AND REASONABLE CHARGES.
(a) Whenever, after full opportunity for hearing, upon a com-
plaint or under an order for investigation and hearing made by the
Commission on its own initiative, the Commission shall be of opin-
ion that any charge, classification, regulation, or practice of any
carrier or carriers is or will be in violation of any of the provisions
of this Act, the Commission is authorized and empowered to deter-
mine and prescribe what will be the just and reasonable charge or
the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, charge or
charges to be thereafter observed, and what classification, regula-
tion, or practice is or will be just, fair, and reasonable, to be there-
after followed, and to make an order that the carrier or carriers
shall cease and desist from such violation to the extent that the
Commission finds that the same does or will exist, and shall not
thereafter publish, demand, or collect any charge other than the
charge so prescribed, or in excess of the maximum or less than the
minimum so prescribed, as the case may be, and shall adopt the
classification and shall conform to and observe the regulation or
practice so prescribed.
(b) Any carrier, any officer, representative, or agent of a car-
rier, or any receiver, trustee, lessee, or agent of either of them, who
knowingly fails or neglects to obey any order made under the provi-
sions of this section shall forfeit to the United States the sum of
$12,000 for each offense. Every distinct violation shall be a sepa-
rate offense, and in case of continuing violation each day shall be
deemed a separate offense.
SEC. 206. ø47 U.S.C. 206¿ LIABILITY OF CARRIERS FOR DAMAGES.
In case any common carrier shall do, or cause or permit to be
done, any act, matter, or thing in this Act prohibited or declared
to be unlawful, or shall omit to do any act, matter, or thing in this
Act required to be done, such common carrier shall be liable to the
person or persons injured thereby for the full amount of damages
sustained in consequence of any such violation of the provisions of
this Act, together with a reasonable counsel or attorney’s fee, to be
fixed by the court in every case of recovery, which attorney’s fee
shall be taxed and collected as part of the costs in the case.
SEC. 207. ø47 U.S.C. 207¿ RECOVERY OF DAMAGES.
Any person claiming to be damaged by any common carrier
subject to the provisions of this Act may either make complaint to
the Commission as hereinafter provided for, or may bring suit for
the recovery of the damages for which such common carrier may
be liable under the provisions of this Act, in any district court of
the United States of competent jurisdiction; but such person shall
not have the right to pursue both such remedies.
SEC. 208. ø47 U.S.C. 208¿ COMPLAINTS TO THE COMMISSION.
(a) Any person, any body politic or municipal organization, or
State commission, complaining of anything done or omitted to be
done by any common carrier subject to this Act, in contravention
of the provisions thereof, may apply to said Commission by petition
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
30Sec. 209 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
which shall briefly state the facts, whereupon a statement of the
complaint thus made shall be forwarded by the Commission to such
common carrier, who shall be called upon to satisfy the complaint
or to answer the same in writing within a reasonable time to be
specified by the Commission. If such common carrier within the
time specified shall make reparation for the injury alleged to have
been caused, the common carrier shall be relieved of liability to the
complainant only for the particular violation of law thus com-
plained of. If such carrier or carriers shall not satisfy the complaint
within the time specified or there shall appear to be any reasonable
ground for investigating said complaint, it shall be the duty of the
Commission to investigate the matters complained of in such man-
ner and by such means as it shall deem proper. No complaint shall
at any time be dismissed because of the absence of direct damage
to the complainant.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the Commission
shall, with respect to any investigation under this section of the
lawfulness of a charge, classification, regulation, or practice, issue
an order concluding such investigation within 5 months after the
date on which the complaint was filed.
(2) The Commission shall, with respect to any such investiga-
tion initiated prior to the date of enactment of this subsection,
issue an order concluding the investigation not later than 12
months after such date of enactment.
(3) Any order concluding an investigation under paragraph (1)
or (2) shall be a final order and may be appealed under section
402(a).
SEC. 209. ø47 U.S.C. 209¿ ORDERS FOR PAYMENT OF MONEY.
If, after hearing on a complaint, the Commission shall deter-
mine that any party complainant is entitled to an award of dam-
ages under the provisions of this Act, the Commission shall make
an order directing the carrier to pay to the complainant the sum
to which he is entitled on or before a day named.
SEC. 210. ø47 U.S.C. 210¿ FRANKS AND PASSES.
(a) Nothing in this Act or in any other provision of law shall
be construed to prohibit common carriers from issuing or giving
franks to, exchanging franks with each other for the use of, their
officers, agents, employees, and their families, or subject to such
rules as the Commission may prescribe, from issuing, giving, or ex-
changing franks and passes to or with other common carriers not
subject to the provisions of this Act, for the use of their officers,
agents, employees, and their families. The term ‘‘employees,’’ as
used in this section, shall include furloughed, pensioned, and su-
perannuated employees.
(b) Nothing in this Act or in any other provision of law shall
be construed to prohibit common carriers from rendering to any
agency of the Government free service in connection with the prep-
aration for the national defense: Provided, That such free service
may be rendered only in accordance with such rules and regula-
tions as the Commission may prescribe therefor.
SEC. 211. ø47 U.S.C. 211¿ COPIES OF CONTRACTS TO BE FILED.
(a) Every carrier subject to this Act shall file with the Commis-
sion copies of all contracts, agreements, or arrangements with
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
31 Sec. 213COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
other carriers, or with common carriers not subject to the provi-
sions of this Act, in relation to any traffic affected by the provisions
of this Act to which it may be a party.
(b) The Commission shall have authority to require the filing
of any other contracts of any carrier, and shall also have authority
to exempt any carrier from submitting copies of such minor con-
tracts as the Commission may determine.
SEC. 212. ø47 U.S.C. 212¿ INTERLOCKING DIRECTORATES—OFFICIALS
DEALING IN SECURITIES.
It shall be unlawful for any person to hold the position of offi-
cer or director of more than one carrier subject to this Act, unless
such holding shall have been authorized by order of the Commis-
sion, upon due showing in form and manner prescribed by the
Commission, that neither public nor private interests will be ad-
versely affected thereby: Provided, That the Commission may au-
thorize persons to hold the position of officer or director in more
than one such carrier, without regard to the requirements of this
section, where it has found that one of the two or more carriers di-
rectly or indirectly owns more than 50 per centum of the stock of
the other or others, or that 50 per centum or more of the stock of
all such carriers is directly or indirectly owned by the same person.
After this section takes effect it shall be unlawful for any officer
or director of any carrier subject to this Act to receive for his own
benefit directly or indirectly, any money or thing of value in respect
of negotiation, hypothecation, or sale of any securities issued or to
be issued by such carriers, or to share in any of the proceeds there-
of, or to participate in the making or paying of any dividends of
such carriers from any funds properly included in capital account.
SEC. 213. ø47 U.S.C. 213¿ VALUATION OF CARRIER PROPERTY.
(a) The Commission may from time to time, as may be nec-
essary for the proper administration of this Act, and after oppor-
tunity for hearing, make a valuation of all or of any part of the
property owned or used by any carrier subject to this Act, as of
such date as the Commission may fix.
(b) The Commission may at any time require any such carrier
to file with the Commission an inventory of all or of any part of
the property owned or used by said carrier, which inventory shall
show the units of said property classified in such detail, and in
such manner, as the Commission shall direct, and shall show the
estimated cost of reproduction new of said units, and their repro-
duction cost new less depreciation, as of such date as the Commis-
sion may direct; and such carrier shall file such inventory within
such reasonable time as the Commission by order shall require.
(c) The Commission may at any time require any such carrier
to file with the Commission a statement showing the original cost
at the time of dedication to the public use of all or of any part of
the property owned or used by said carrier. For the showing of such
original cost said property shall be classified, and the original cost
shall be defined, in such manner as the Commission may prescribe;
and if any part of such cost cannot be determined from accounting
or other records, the portion of the property for which such cost
cannot be determined shall be reported to the Commission; and if
the Commission shall so direct, the original cost thereof shall be es-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
32Sec. 213 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
timated in such manner as the Commission may prescribe. If the
carrier owning the property at the time such original cost is re-
ported shall have paid more or less than the original cost to ac-
quire the same, the amount of such cost of acquisition, and any
facts which the Commission may require in connection therewith,
shall be reported with such original cost. The report made by a car-
rier under this paragraph shall show the source or sources from
which the original cost reported was obtained, and such other infor-
mation as to the manner in which the report was prepared, as the
Commission shall require.
(d) Nothing shall be included in the original cost reported for
the property of any carrier under paragraph (c) of this section on
account of any easement, license, or franchise granted by the
United States or by any State or political subdivision thereof, be-
yond the reasonable necessary expense lawfully incurred in obtain-
ing such easement, license, or franchise from the public authority
aforesaid, which expense shall be reported separately from all other
costs in such detail as the Commission may require; and nothing
shall be included in any valuation of the property of any carrier
made by the Commission on account of any such easement, license,
or franchise, beyond such reasonable necessary expense lawfully in-
curred as aforesaid.
(e) The Commission shall keep itself informed of all new con-
struction, extensions, improvements, retirements, or other changes
in the condition, quantity, use, and classification of the property of
common carriers, and of the cost of all additions and betterments
thereto and of all changes in the investment therein, and may keep
itself informed of current changes in costs and values of carrier
properties.
(f) For the purpose of enabling the Commission to make a valu-
ation of any of the property of any such carrier, or to find the origi-
nal cost of such property, or to find any other facts concerning the
same which are required for use by the Commission, it shall be the
duty of each such carrier to furnish to the Commission, within such
reasonable time as the Commission may order, any information
with respect thereto which the Commission may by order require,
including copies of maps, contracts, reports of engineers, and other
data, records, and papers, and to grant to all agents of the Com-
mission free access to its property and its accounts, records, and
memoranda whenever and wherever requested by any such duly
authorized agent, and to cooperate with and aid the Commission in
the work of making any such valuation of finding in such manner
and to such extent as the Commission may require and direct, and
all rules and regulations made by the Commission for the purpose
of administering this section shall have the full force and effect of
law. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, with the reasons
therefor, the records and data of the Commission shall be open to
the inspection and examination of the public. The Commission, in
making any such valuation, shall be free to adopt any method of
valuation which shall be lawful.
(g) Nothing in this section shall impair or diminish the powers
of any State commission.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
33 Sec. 214COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 214. ø47 U.S.C. 214¿ EXTENSION OF LINES.
(a) No carrier shall undertake the construction of a new line
or of an extension of any line, or shall acquire or operate any line,
or extension thereof, or shall engage in transmission over or by
means of such additional or extended line, unless and until there
shall first have been obtained from the Commission a certificate
that the present or future public convenience and necessity require
or will require the construction, or operation, or construction and
operation, of such additional or extended line: Provided, That no
such certificate shall be required under this section for the con-
struction, acquisition, or operation of (1) a line within a single
State unless such line constitutes part of an interstate line, (2)
local, branch, or terminal lines not exceeding ten miles in length,
or (3) any line acquired under section 221 of this Act: Provided fur-
ther, That the Commission may, upon appropriate request being
made, authorize temporary or emergency service, or the
supplementing of existing facilities, without regard to the provi-
sions of this section. No carrier shall discontinue, reduce, or impair
service to a community, or part of a community, unless and until
there shall first have been obtained from the Commission a certifi-
cate that neither the present nor future public convenience and ne-
cessity will be adversely affected thereby; except that the Commis-
sion may, upon appropriate request being made, authorize tem-
porary or emergency discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of
service, or partial discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of serv-
ice, without regard to the provisions of this section. As used in this
section the term ‘‘line’’ means any channel of communication estab-
lished by the use of appropriate equipment, other than a channel
of communication established by the interconnection of two or more
existing channels: Provided, however, That nothing in this section
shall be construed to require a certificate or other authorization
from the Commission for any installation, replacement, or other
changes in plant, operation, or equipment, other than new con-
struction, which will not impair the adequacy or quality of service
provided.
(b) Upon receipt of an application for any such certificate, the
Commission shall cause notice thereof to be given to, and shall
cause a copy of such application to be filed with, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of State (with respect to such applications
involving service to foreign points), and the Governor of each State
in which such line is proposed to be constructed, extended, ac-
quired, or operated, or in which such discontinuance, reduction, or
impairment of service is proposed, with the right to those notified
to be heard; and the Commission may require such published no-
tice as it shall determine.
(c) The Commission shall have power to issue such certificate
as applied for, to refuse to issue it, or to issue it for a portion or
portions of a line, or extension thereof, or discontinuance, reduc-
tion, or impairment of service, described in the application, or for
the partial exercise only of such right or privilege, and may attach
to the issuance of the certificate such terms and conditions as in
its judgment the public convenience and necessity may require.
After issuance of such certificate, and not before, the carrier may,
without securing approval other than such certificate, comply with
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
34Sec. 214 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the terms and conditions contained in or attached to the issuance
of such certificate and proceed with the construction, extension, ac-
quisition, operation, or discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of
service covered thereby. Any construction, extension, acquisition,
operation, discontinuance, reduction, or impairment of service con-
trary to the provisions of this section may be enjoined by any court
of competent jurisdiction at the suit of the United States, the Com-
mission, the State commission, any State affected, or any party in
interest.
(d) The Commission may, after full opportunity for hearing, in
a proceeding upon complaint or upon its own initiative without
complaint, authorize or require by order any carrier, party to such
proceeding, to provide itself with adequate facilities for the expedi-
tious and efficient performance of its service as a common carrier
and to extend its line or to establish a public office; but no such
authorization or order shall be made unless the Commission finds,
as to such provision of facilities, as to such establishment of public
offices, or as to such extension, that it is reasonably required in the
interest of public convenience and necessity, or as to such extension
or facilities that the expense involved therein will not impair the
ability of the carrier to perform its duty to the public. Any carrier
which refuses or neglects to comply with any order of the Commis-
sion made in pursuance of this paragraph shall forfeit to the
United States $1,200 for each day during which such refusal or ne-
glect continues.
(e) PROVISION OF UNIVERSAL SERVICE.—
(1) E LIGIBLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS.—A common
carrier designated as an eligible telecommunications carrier
under paragraph (2), (3), or (6) shall be eligible to receive uni-
versal service support in accordance with section 254 and shall,
throughout the service area for which the designation is re-
ceived— (A) offer the services that are supported by Federal
universal service support mechanisms under section
254(c), either using its own facilities or a combination of
its own facilities and resale of another carrier’s services
(including the services offered by another eligible tele-
communications carrier); and
(B) advertise the availability of such services and the
charges therefor using media of general distribution.
(2) DESIGNATION OF ELIGIBLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS CAR-
RIERS.—A State commission shall upon its own motion or upon
request designate a common carrier that meets the require-
ments of paragraph (1) as an eligible telecommunications car-
rier for a service area designated by the State commission.
Upon request and consistent with the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity, the State commission may, in the case of
an area served by a rural telephone company, and shall, in the
case of all other areas, designate more than one common car-
rier as an eligible telecommunications carrier for a service area
designated by the State commission, so long as each additional
requesting carrier meets the requirements of paragraph (1).
Before designating an additional eligible telecommunications
carrier for an area served by a rural telephone company, the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
35 Sec. 214COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
State commission shall find that the designation is in the pub-
lic interest.
(3) DESIGNATION OF ELIGIBLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS CAR-
RIERS FOR UNSERVED AREAS.—If no common carrier will provide
the services that are supported by Federal universal service
support mechanisms under section 254(c) to an unserved com-
munity or any portion thereof that requests such service, the
Commission, with respect to interstate services or an area
served by a common carrier to which paragraph (6) applies, or
a State commission, with respect to intrastate services, shall
determine which common carrier or carriers are best able to
provide such service to the requesting unserved community or
portion thereof and shall order such carrier or carriers to pro-
vide such service for that unserved community or portion
thereof. Any carrier or carriers ordered to provide such service
under this paragraph shall meet the requirements of para-
graph (1) and shall be designated as an eligible telecommuni-
cations carrier for that community or portion thereof.
(4) RELINQUISHMENT OF UNIVERSAL SERVICE.—A State com-
mission (or the Commission in the case of a common carrier
designated under paragraph (6)) shall permit an eligible tele-
communications carrier to relinquish its designation as such a
carrier in any area served by more than one eligible tele-
communications carrier. An eligible telecommunications carrier
that seeks to relinquish its eligible telecommunications carrier
designation for an area served by more than one eligible tele-
communications carrier shall give advance notice to the State
commission (or the Commission in the case of a common car-
rier designated under paragraph (6)) of such relinquishment.
Prior to permitting a telecommunications carrier designated as
an eligible telecommunications carrier to cease providing uni-
versal service in an area served by more than one eligible tele-
communications carrier, the State commission (or the Commis-
sion in the case of a common carrier designated under para-
graph (6)) shall require the remaining eligible telecommuni-
cations carrier or carriers to ensure that all customers served
by the relinquishing carrier will continue to be served, and
shall require sufficient notice to permit the purchase or con-
struction of adequate facilities by any remaining eligible tele-
communications carrier. The State commission (or the Commis-
sion in the case of a common carrier designated under para-
graph (6)) shall establish a time, not to exceed one year after
the State commission (or the Commission in the case of a com-
mon carrier designated under paragraph (6)) approves such re-
linquishment under this paragraph, within which such pur-
chase or construction shall be completed.
(5) SERVICE AREA DEFINED.—The term ‘‘service area’’
means a geographic area established by a State commission (or
the Commission under paragraph (6)) for the purpose of deter-
mining universal service obligations and support mechanisms.
In the case of an area served by a rural telephone company,
‘‘service area’’ means such company’s ‘‘study area’’ unless and
until the Commission and the States, after taking into account
recommendations of a Federal-State Joint Board instituted
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
36Sec. 215 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
under section 410(c), establish a different definition of service
area for such company.
(6) COMMON CARRIERS NOT SUBJECT TO STATE COMMISSION
JURISDICTION.—In the case of a common carrier providing tele-
phone exchange service and exchange access that is not subject
to the jurisdiction of a State commission, the Commission shall
upon request designate such a common carrier that meets the
requirements of paragraph (1) as an eligible telecommuni-
cations carrier for a service area designated by the Commission
consistent with applicable Federal and State law. Upon request
and consistent with the public interest, convenience and neces-
sity, the Commission may, with respect to an area served by
a rural telephone company, and shall, in the case of all other
areas, designate more than one common carrier as an eligible
telecommunications carrier for a service area designated under
this paragraph, so long as each additional requesting carrier
meets the requirements of paragraph (1). Before designating
an additional eligible telecommunications carrier for an area
served by a rural telephone company, the Commission shall
find that the designation is in the public interest.
SEC. 215. ø47 U.S.C. 215¿ TRANSACTIONS RELATING TO SERVICES,
EQUIPMENT, AND SO FORTH.
(a) The Commission shall examine into transactions entered
into by any common carrier which relate to the furnishing of equip-
ment, supplies, research, services, finances, credit, or personnel to
such carrier and/or which may affect the changes made or to be
made and/or the services rendered or to be rendered by such car-
rier, in wire or radio communications subject to this Act, and shall
report to the Congress whether any such transactions have affected
or are likely to affect adversely the ability of the carrier to render
adequate service to the public, or may result in any undue or un-
reasonable increase in charges or in the maintenance of undue or
unreasonable charges for such service; and in order to fully exam-
ine into such transactions the Commission shall have access to and
the right of inspection and examination of all accounts, records,
and memoranda including all documents, papers, and correspond-
ence now or hereafter existing, of persons furnishing such equip-
ment, supplies, research, services, finances, credit, or personnel.
The Commission shall include in its report its recommendations for
necessary legislation in connection with such transactions, and
shall report specifically whether in its opinion legislation should be
enacted (1) authorizing the Commission to declare any such trans-
actions void or to permit such transactions to be carried out subject
to such modification of their terms and conditions as the Commis-
sion shall deem desirable in the public interest; and/or (2) sub-
jecting such transactions to the approval of the Commission where
the person furnishing or seeking to furnish the equipment, sup-
plies, research, service, finances, credit or personnel is a person di-
rectly or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or
indirect common control with, such carrier; and/or (3) authorizing
the Commission to require that all or any transactions of carriers
involving the furnishing of equipment, supplies, research, services,
finances, credit, or personnel to such carrier be upon competitive
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
37 Sec. 219COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
bids on such terms and conditions and subject to such regulations
as it shall prescribe as necessary in the public interest.
(b) The Commission shall examine all contracts of common car-
riers subject to this Act which prevent the other party thereto from
dealing with another common carrier subject to this Act, and shall
report its findings to Congress, together with its recommendations
as to whether additional legislation on this subject is desirable.
SEC. 216. ø47 U.S.C. 216¿ APPLICATION OF ACT TO RECEIVERS AND
TRUSTEES.
The provisions of this Act shall apply to all receivers and oper-
ating trustees of carriers subject to this Act to the same extent that
it applies to carriers.
SEC. 217. ø47 U.S.C. 217¿ LIABILITY OF CARRIER FOR ACTS AND OMIS-
SIONS OF AGENTS.
In construing and enforcing the provisions of this Act, the act,
omission, or failure of any officer, agent, or other person acting for
or employed by any common carrier or user, acting within the
scope of his employment, shall in every case be also deemed to be
the act, omission, or failure of such carrier or user as well as that
of the person.
SEC. 218. ø47 U.S.C. 218¿ INQUIRIES INTO MANAGEMENT.
The Commission may inquire into the management of the busi-
ness of all carriers subject to this Act, and shall keep itself in-
formed as to the manner and method in which the same is con-
ducted and as to technical developments and improvements in wire
and radio communication and radio transmission of energy to the
end that the benefits of new inventions and developments may be
made available to the people of the United States. The Commission
may obtain from such carriers and from persons directly or indi-
rectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect com-
mon control with, such carriers full and complete information nec-
essary to enable the Commission to perform the duties and carry
out the objects for which it was created.
SEC. 219. ø47 U.S.C. 219¿ ANNUAL AND OTHER REPORTS.
(a) The Commission is authorized to require annual reports
from all carriers subject to this Act, and from persons directly or
indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect
common control with, any such carrier, to prescribe the manner in
which such reports shall be made, and to require from such persons
specific answers to all questions upon which the Commission may
need information. Except as otherwise required by the Commission,
such annual reports shall show in detail the amount of capital
stock issued, the amount and privileges of each class of stock, the
amounts paid therefor, and the manner of payment for the same;
the dividends paid and the surplus fund, if any; the number of
stockholders (and the names of the thirty largest holders of each
class of stock and the amount held by each); the funded and float-
ing debts and the interest paid thereon; the cost and value of the
carrier’s property, franchises, and equipment; the number of em-
ployees and the salaries paid each class; the names of all officers
and directors, and the amount of salary, bonus, and all other com-
pensation paid to each; the amounts expended for improvements
each year, how expended, and the character of such improvements;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
38Sec. 220 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
2 Public Law 97–35, 95 Stat. 357, 738–39, Aug. 13, 1981, provided as follows:
UNIFORM SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS
SEC. 1253. (a)(1) The Federal Communications Commission (hereinafter in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Commission’’) shall complete the rulemaking proceeding relating to the revision
of the uniform system of accounts used by telephone companies (Common Carrier Docket 78–
196; notice of proposed rulemaking adopted June 28, 1978, 43 Federal Register 33560) as soon
as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) Such uniform system shall require that each common carrier shall maintain a system of
accounting methods, procedures, and techniques (including accounts and supporting records and
memoranda) which shall ensure a proper allocation of all costs to and among telecommuni-
cations services, facilities, and products (and to and among classes of such services, facilities,
and products) which are developed, manufactured, or offered by such common carrier.
(b) The Commission shall submit a report to each House of the Congress not later than one
year after the date of the enactment of this Act. Such report shall include a summary of actions
taken by the Commission in connection with the rulemaking proceeding specified in subsection
(a), together with such other information as the Commission consider appropriate.
the earnings and receipts from each branch of business and from
all sources; the operating and other expenses; the balances of profit
and loss; and a complete exhibit of the financial operations of the
carrier each year, including an annual balance sheet. Such reports
shall also contain such information in relation to charges or regula-
tions concerning charges, or agreements, arrangements, or con-
tracts affecting the same, as the Commission may require.
(b) Such reports shall be for such twelve months’ period as the
Commission shall designate and shall be filed with the Commission
at its office in Washington within three months after the close of
the year for which the report is made, unless additional time is
granted in any case by the Commission; and if any person subject
to the provisions of this section shall fail to make and file said an-
nual reports within the time above specified, or within the time ex-
tended by the Commission, for making and filing the same, or shall
fail to make specific answer to any question authorized by the pro-
visions of this section within thirty days from the time it is law-
fully required so to do, such person shall forfeit to the United
States the sum of $1,200 for each and every day it shall continue
to be in default with respect thereto. The Commission may by gen-
eral or special orders require any such carriers to file monthly re-
ports of earnings and expenses and to file periodical and/or special
reports concerning any matters with respect to which the Commis-
sion is authorized or required by law to act. If any such carrier
shall fail to make and file any such periodical or special report
within the time fixed by the Commission, it shall be subject to the
forefeitures above provided.
SEC. 220. ø47 U.S.C. 220¿ ACCOUNTS, RECORDS, AND MEMORANDA; DE-
PRECIATION CHARGES 2 .
(a)(1) The Commission may, in its discretion, prescribe the
forms of any and all accounts, records, and memoranda to be kept
by carriers subject to this Act, including the accounts, records, and
memoranda of the movement of traffic, as well as of the receipts
and expenditures of moneys.
(2) The Commission shall, by rule, prescribe a uniform system
of accounts for use by telephone companies. Such uniform system
shall require that each common carrier shall maintain a system of
accounting methods, procedures, and techniques (including ac-
counts and supporting records and memoranda) which shall ensure
a proper allocation of all costs to and among telecommunications
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
39 Sec. 220COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
services, facilities, and products (and to and among classes of such
services, facilities, and products) which are developed, manufac-
tured, or offered by such common carrier.
(b) The Commission may prescribe for such carriers as it deter-
mines to be appropriate, the classes of property for which deprecia-
tion charges may be properly included under operating expenses,
and the percentages of depreciation which shall be charged with re-
spect to each of such classes of property, classifying the carriers as
it may deem proper for this purpose. The Commission may, when
it deems necessary, modify the classes and percentages so pre-
scribed. Such carriers shall not, after the Commission has pre-
scribed the classes of property for which depreciation charges may
be included, charge to operating expenses any depreciation charges
on classes of property other than those prescribed by the Commis-
sion, or, after the Commission has prescribed percentages of depre-
ciation, charge with respect to any class of property a percentage
of depreciation other than that prescribed therefor by the Commis-
sion. No such carrier shall in any case include in any form under
its operating or other expenses any depreciation or other charge or
expenditure included elsewhere as a depreciation charge or other-
wise under its operating or other expenses.
(c) The Commission shall at all times have access to and the
right of inspection and examination of all accounts, records, and
memoranda, including all documents, papers, and correspondence
now or hereafter existing, and kept or required to be kept by such
carriers, and the provisions of this section respecting the preserva-
tion and destruction of books, papers, and documents shall apply
thereto. The burden of proof to justify every accounting entry ques-
tioned by the Commission shall be on the person making, author-
izing, or requiring such entry and the Commission may suspend a
charge or credit pending submission of proof by such person. Any
provision of law prohibiting the disclosure of the contents of mes-
sages or communications shall not be deemed to prohibit the disclo-
sure of any matter in accordance with the provisions of this section.
The Commission may obtain the services of any person licensed to
provide public accounting services under the law of any State to as-
sist with, or conduct, audits under this section. While so employed
or engaged in conducting an audit for the Commission under this
section, any such person shall have the powers granted the Com-
mission under this subsection and shall be subject to subsection (f)
in the same manner as if that person were an employee of the
Commission.
(d) In case of failure or refusal on the part of any such carrier
to keep such accounts, records, and memoranda on the books and
in the manner prescribed by the Commission, or to submit such ac-
counts, records, memoranda, documents, papers, and correspond-
ence as are kept to the inspection of the Commission or any of its
authorized agents, such carrier shall forfeit to the United States
the sum of $6,000 for each day of the continuance of each such of-
fense.
(e) Any person who shall willfully make any false entry in the
accounts of any book of accounts or in any record or memoranda
kept by any such carrier, or who shall willfully destroy, mutilate,
alter, or by any other means or device falsify any such account,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
40Sec. 221 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
record, or memoranda, or who shall willfully neglect or fail to make
full, true, and correct entries in such accounts, records, or memo-
randa of all facts and transactions appertaining to the business of
the carrier, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
subject, upon conviction, to a fine of not less than $1,000 nor more
than $5,000 or imprisonment for a term of not less than one year
nor more than three years, or both such fine and imprisonment:
Provided, That the Commission may in its descretion issue orders
specifying such operating, accounting, or financial papers, records,
books, blanks, or documents which may, after a reasonable time, be
destroyed, and prescribing the length of time such books, papers,
or documents shall be preserved.
(f) No member, officer, or employee of the Commission shall di-
vulge any fact or information which may come to his knowledge
during the course of examination of books or other accounts, as
hereinbefore provided, except insofar as he may be directed by the
Commission or by a court.
(g) After the Commission has prescribed the forms and manner
of keeping of accounts, records, or memoranda to be kept by any
person as herein provided, it shall be unlawful for such person to
keep any other accounts, records, or memoranda than those so pre-
scribed or such as may be approved by the Commission or to keep
the accounts in any other manner than that prescribed or approved
by the Commission. Notice of alterations by the Commission in the
required manner or form of keeping accounts shall be given to such
persons by the Commission at least six months before the same are
to take effect.
(h) The Commission may classify carriers subject to this Act
and prescribe different requirements under this section for dif-
ferent classes of carriers, and may, if it deems such action con-
sistent with the public interest, except the carriers of any par-
ticular class or classes in any State from any of the requirements
under this section in cases where such carriers are subject to State
commission regulation with respect to matters to which this section
relates.
(i) The Commission, before prescribing any requirements as to
accounts, records, or memoranda, shall notify each State commis-
sion having jurisdiction with respect to any carrier involved, and
shall give reasonabale opportunity to each such commission to
present its views, and shall receive and consider such views and
recommendations.
(j) The Commission shall investigate and report to Congress as
to the need for legislation to define further or harmonize the pow-
ers of the Commission and of State commissions with respect to
matters to which this section relates.
SEC. 221. ø47 U.S.C. 221¿ SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO TELE-
PHONE COMPANIES.
ø(a) Repealed by Public Law 104–104; 110 Stat. 143.¿
(b) Subject to the provisions of sections 225 and 301, nothing
in this Act shall be construced to apply, or to give the Commission
jurisdiction, with respect to charges, classifications, practices, serv-
ices, facilities, or regulations for or in connection with wire, mobile,
or point-to-point radio telephone exchange service, or any combina-
tion thereof even though a portion of such exchange service con-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
41 Sec. 222COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
stitutes interstate or foreign communication, in any case where
such matters are subject to regulation by a State commission or by
local governmental authority.
(c) For the purpose of administering this Act as to carriers en-
gaged in wire telephone communication, the Commission may clas-
sify the property of any such carrier used for wire telephone com-
munication, and determine what property of said carrier shall be
considered as used in interstate or foreign telephone toll service.
Such classification shall be made after hearing, upon notice to the
carrier, the State commission (or the Governor, if the State has no
State commission) of any State in which the property of said car-
rier is located, and such other persons as the commission may pre-
scribe.
(d) In making a valuation of the property of any wire telephone
carrier the Commission, after making the classification authorized
in this section, may in its discretion value only that part of the
property of such carrier determined to be used in interstate or for-
eign telephone toll service.
SEC. 222. ø47 U.S.C. 222¿ PRIVACY OF CUSTOMER INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Every telecommunications carrier has a duty
to protect the confidentiality of proprietary information of, and re-
lating to, other telecommunication carriers, equipment manufactur-
ers, and customers, including telecommunication carriers reselling
telecommunications services provided by a telecommunications car-
rier.
(b) CONFIDENTIALITY OF CARRIER INFORMATION.—A tele-
communications carrier that receives or obtains proprietary infor-
mation from another carrier for purposes of providing any tele-
communications service shall use such information only for such
purpose, and shall not use such information for its own marketing
efforts.
(c) CONFIDENTIALITY OF CUSTOMER PROPRIETARY NETWORK IN-
FORMATION.—
(1) PRIVACY REQUIREMENTS FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CARRIERS.—Except as required by law or with the approval of
the customer, a telecommunications carrier that receives or ob-
tains customer proprietary network information by virtue of its
provision of a telecommunications service shall only use, dis-
close, or permit access to individually identifiable customer
proprietary network information in its provision of (A) the tele-
communications service from which such information is de-
rived, or (B) services necessary to, or used in, the provision of
such telecommunications service, including the publishing of
directories.
(2) DISCLOSURE ON REQUEST BY CUSTOMERS.—A tele-
communications carrier shall disclose customer proprietary
network information, upon affirmative written request by the
customer, to any person designated by the customer.
(3) AGGREGATE CUSTOMER INFORMATION.—A telecommuni-
cations carrier that receives or obtains customer proprietary
network information by virtue of its provision of a tele-
communications service may use, disclose, or permit access to
aggregate customer information other than for the purposes
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
42Sec. 222 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
described in paragraph (1). A local exchange carrier may use,
disclose, or permit access to aggregate customer information
other than for purposes described in paragraph (1) only if it
provides such aggregate information to other carriers or per-
sons on reasonable and nondiscriminatory terms and condi-
tions upon reasonable request therefor.
(d) EXCEPTIONS.—Nothing in this section prohibits a tele-
communications carrier from using, disclosing, or permitting access
to customer proprietary network information obtained from its cus-
tomers, either directly or indirectly through its agents—
(1) to initiate, render, bill, and collect for telecommuni-
cations services;
(2) to protect the rights or property of the carrier, or to
protect users of those services and other carriers from fraudu-
lent, abusive, or unlawful use of, or subscription to, such serv-
ices;
(3) to provide any inbound telemarketing, referral, or ad-
ministrative services to the customer for the duration of the
call, if such call was initiated by the customer and the cus-
tomer approves of the use of such information to provide such
service; and
(4) to provide call location information concerning the user
of a commercial mobile service (as such term is defined in sec-
tion 332(d)) or the user of an IP-enabled voice service (as such
term is defined in section 7 of the Wireless Communications
and Public Safety Act of 1999 (47 U.S.C. 615b))—
(A) to a public safety answering point, emergency med-
ical service provider or emergency dispatch provider, pub-
lic safety, fire service, or law enforcement official, or hos-
pital emergency or trauma care facility, in order to re-
spond to the user’s call for emergency services;
(B) to inform the user’s legal guardian or members of
the user’s immediate family of the user’s location in an
emergency situation that involves the risk of death or seri-
ous physical harm; or
(C) to providers of information or database manage-
ment services solely for purposes of assisting in the deliv-
ery of emergency services in response to an emergency.
(e) SUBSCRIBER LIST INFORMATION.—Notwithstanding sub-
sections (b), (c), and (d), a telecommunications carrier that provides
telephone exchange service shall provide subscriber list information
gathered in its capacity as a provider of such service on a timely
and unbundled basis, under nondiscriminatory and reasonable
rates, terms, and conditions, to any person upon request for the
purpose of publishing directories in any format.
(f) AUTHORITY TO USE LOCATION INFORMATION.—For purposes
of subsection (c)(1), without the express prior authorization of the
customer, a customer shall not be considered to have approved the
use or disclosure of or access to—
(1) call location information concerning the user of a com-
mercial mobile service (as such term is defined in section
332(d)) or the user of an IP-enabled voice service (as such term
is defined in section 7 of the Wireless Communications and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
43 Sec. 222COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Public Safety Act of 1999 (47 U.S.C. 615b)), other than in ac-
cordance with subsection (d)(4); or
(2) automatic crash notification information to any person
other than for use in the operation of an automatic crash noti-
fication system.
(g) SUBSCRIBER LISTED AND UNLISTED INFORMATION FOR EMER-
GENCY SERVICES.—Notwithstanding subsections (b), (c), and (d), a
telecommunications carrier that provides telephone exchange serv-
ice or a provider of IP-enabled voice service (as such term is de-
fined in section 7 of the Wireless Communications and Public Safe-
ty Act of 1999 (47 U.S.C. 615b)) shall provide information described
in subsection (i)(3)(A) (including information pertaining to sub-
scribers whose information is unlisted or unpublished) that is in its
possession or control (including information pertaining to sub-
scribers of other carriers) on a timely and unbundled basis, under
nondiscriminatory and reasonable rates, terms, and conditions to
providers of emergency services, and providers of emergency sup-
port services, solely for purposes of delivering or assisting in the
delivery of emergency services.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) CUSTOMER PROPRIETARY NETWORK INFORMATION.—The
term ‘‘customer proprietary network information’’ means—
(A) information that relates to the quantity, technical
configuration, type, destination, location, and amount of
use of a telecommunications service subscribed to by any
customer of a telecommunications carrier, and that is
made available to the carrier by the customer solely by vir-
tue of the carrier-customer relationship; and
(B) information contained in the bills pertaining to
telephone exchange service or telephone toll service re-
ceived by a customer of a carrier;
except that such term does not include subscriber list informa-
tion.
(2) A GGREGATE INFORMATION.—The term ‘‘aggregate cus-
tomer information’’ means collective data that relates to a
group or category of services or customers, from which indi-
vidual customer identities and characteristics have been re-
moved.
(3) SUBSCRIBER LIST INFORMATION.—The term ‘‘subscriber
list information’’ means any information—
(A) identifying the listed names of subscribers of a car-
rier and such subscribers’ telephone numbers, addresses,
or primary advertising classifications (as such classifica-
tions are assigned at the time of the establishment of such
service), or any combination of such listed names, num-
bers, addresses, or classifications; and
(B) that the carrier or an affiliate has published,
caused to be published, or accepted for publication in any
directory format.
(4) PUBLIC SAFETY ANSWERING POINT.—The term ‘‘public
safety answering point’’ means a facility that has been des-
ignated to receive emergency calls and route them to emer-
gency service personnel.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
44Sec. 223 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
3 Section 223 was added by Public Law 90–299, approved May 3, 1968, 82 Stat. 112; amended
by Public Law 98–214, 97 Stat. 1469, Dec. 8, 1983. Section 223 was amended twice in the 100th
Congress: Public Law 100–297, 102 Stat. 424, April 28, 1988; Public Law 100–690, 102 Stat.
4181, Nov. 18, 1988. Printed is the section as amended by the latter amendment.
4 Section 1102(2)(B) of Public Law 113-4 amends section 223(a)(1)(C) by striking ‘‘harass any
person at the called number or who receives the communication’’ and inserting ‘‘harass any spe-
cific person’’. Such amendment should have been made to strike ‘‘harass any person at the called
number or who receives the communication[s]’’; however, it was carried out above to reflect the
probable intent of Congress.
(5) EMERGENCY SERVICES.—The term ‘‘emergency services’’
means 9–1–1 emergency services and emergency notification
services.
(6) EMERGENCY NOTIFICATION SERVICES.—The term ‘‘emer-
gency notification services’’ means services that notify the pub-
lic of an emergency.
(7) EMERGENCY SUPPORT SERVICES.—The term ‘‘emergency
support services’’ means information or data base management
services used in support of emergency services.
SEC. 223. 3 ø47 U.S.C. 223¿ OBSCENE OR HARASSING TELEPHONE CALLS
IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA OR IN INTERSTATE OR
FOREIGN COMMUNICATIONS.
(a) Whoever—
(1) in interstate or foreign communications—
(A) by means of a telecommunications device know-
ingly— (i) makes, creates, or solicits, and
(ii) initiates the transmission of,
any comment, request, suggestion, proposal, image, or
other communication which is obscene or child pornog-
raphy, with intent to abuse, threaten, or harass another
person;
(B) by means of a telecommunications device know-
ingly— (i) makes, creates, or solicits, and
(ii) initiates the transmission of,
any comment, request, suggestion, proposal, image, or
other communication which is obscene or child pornog-
raphy, knowing that the recipient of the communication is
under 18 years of age, regardless of whether the maker of
such communication placed the call or initiated the com-
munication;
(C) makes a telephone call or utilizes a telecommuni-
cations device, whether or not conversation or communica-
tion ensues, without disclosing his identity and with intent
to abuse, threaten, or harass any specific person 4 ;
(D) makes or causes the telephone of another repeat-
edly or continuously to ring, with intent to harass any per-
son at the called number; or
(E) makes repeated telephone calls or repeatedly initi-
ates communication with a telecommunications device,
during which conversation or communication ensues, solely
to harass any specific person; or
(2) knowingly permits any telecommunications facility
under his control to be used for any activity prohibited by
paragraph (1) with the intent that it be used for such activity,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
45 Sec. 223COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not
more than two years, or both.
(b)(1) Whoever knowingly—
(A) within the United States, by means of telephone,
makes (directly or by recording device) any obscene commu-
nication for commercial purposes to any person, regardless of
whether the maker of such communication placed the call; or
(B) permits any telephone facility under such person’s con-
trol to be used for an activity prohibited by subparagraph (A),
shall be fined in accordance with title 18, United States Code, or
imprisoned not more than two years, or both.
(2) Whoever knowingly—
(A) within the United States, by means of telephone,
makes (directly or by recording device) any indecent commu-
nication for commercial purposes which is available to any per-
son under 18 years of age or to any other person without that
person’s consent, regardless of whether the maker of such com-
munication placed the call; or
(B) permits any telephone facility under such person’s con-
trol to be used for an activity prohibited by subparagraph (A),
shall be fined not more than $50,000 or imprisoned not more
than six months, or both.
(3) It is a defense to prosecution under paragraph (2) of this
subsection that the defendant restricted access to the prohibited
communication to persons 18 years of age or older in accordance
with subsection (c) of this section and with such procedures as the
Commission may prescribe by regulation.
(4) In addition to the penalties under paragraph (1), whoever,
within the United States, intentionally violates paragraph (1) or (2)
shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50,000 for each viola-
tion. For purposes of this paragraph, each day of violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
(5)(A) In addition to the penalties under paragraphs (1), (2),
and (5), whoever, within the United States, violates paragraph (1)
or (2) shall be subject to a civil fine of not more than $50,000 for
each violation. For purposes of this paragraph, each day of viola-
tion shall constitute a separate violation.
(B) A fine under this paragraph may be assessed either—
(i) by a court, pursuant to civil action by the Commission
or any attorney employed by the Commission who is des-
ignated by the Commission for such purposes, or
(ii) by the Commission after appropriate administrative
proceedings.
(6) The Attorney General may bring a suit in the appropriate
district court of the United States to enjoin any act or practice
which violates paragraph (1) or (2). An injunction may be granted
in accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
(c)(1) A common carrier within the District of Columbia or
within any State, or in interstate or foreign commerce, shall not,
to the extent technically feasible, provide access to a communica-
tion specified in subsection (b) from the telephone of any subscriber
who has not previously requested in writing the carrier to provide
access to such communication if the carrier collects from sub-
scribers an identifiable charge for such communication that the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
46Sec. 223 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
carrier remits, in whole or in part, to the provider of such
commuication.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), no cause of action may
be brought in any court or administrative agency against any com-
mon carrier, or any of its affiliates, including their officers, direc-
tors, employees, agents, or authorized representatives on account
of— (A) any action which the carrier demonstrates was taken
in good faith to restrict access pursuant to paragraph (1) of
this subsection; or
(B) any access permitted—
(i) in good faith reliance upon the lack of any rep-
resentation by a provider of communciations that commu-
nications provided by that provider are communications
specified in subsection (b), or
(ii) because a specific representation by the provider
did not allow the carrier, acting in good faith, a sufficient
period to restrict access to communications described in
subsection (b).
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2) of this subsection, a pro-
vider of communications services to which subscribers are denied
access pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection may bring an
action for a declaratory judgment or similar action in a court. Any
such action shall be limited to the question of whether the commu-
nications which the provider seeks to provide fall within the cat-
egory of communications to which the carrier will provide access
only to subscribers who have previously requested such access.
(d) Whoever—
(1) in interstate or foreign communications knowingly—
(A) uses an interactive computer service to send to a
specific person or persons under 18 years of age, or
(B) uses any interactive computer service to display in
a manner available to a person under 18 years of age,
any comment, request, suggestion, proposal, image, or other
communication that is obscene or child pornography, regard-
less of whether the user of such service placed the call or initi-
ated the communication; or
(2) knowingly permits any telecommunications facility
under such person’s control to be used for an activity prohib-
ited by paragraph (1) with the intent that it be used for such
activity,
shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or imprisoned not
more than two years, or both.
(e) In addition to any other defenses available by law:
(1) No person shall be held to have violated subsection (a),
(d), or (h) solely for providing access or connection to or from
a facility, system, or network not under that person’s control,
including transmission, downloading, intermediate storage, ac-
cess software, or other related capabilities that are incidental
to providing such access or connection that does not include
the creation of the content of the communication.
(2) The defenses provided by paragraph (1) of this sub-
section shall not be applicable to a person who is a conspirator
with an entity actively involved in the creation or knowing dis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
47 Sec. 223COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tribution of communications that violate this section, or who
knowingly advertises the availability of such communications.
(3) The defenses provided in paragraph (1) of this sub-
section shall not be applicable to a person who provides access
or connection to a facility, system, or network engaged in the
violation of this section that is owned or controlled by such per-
son. (4) No employer shall be held liable under this section for
the actions of an employee or agent unless the employee’s or
agent’s conduct is within the scope of his or her employment
or agency and the employer (A) having knowledge of such con-
duct, authorizes or ratifies such conduct, or (B) recklessly dis-
regards such conduct.
(5) It is a defense to a prosecution under subsection
(a)(1)(B) or (d), or under subsection (a)(2) with respect to the
use of a facility for an activity under subsection (a)(1)(B) that
a person—
(A) has taken, in good faith, reasonable, effective, and
appropriate actions under the circumstances to restrict or
prevent access by minors to a communication specified in
such subsections, which may involve any appropriate
measures to restrict minors from such communications, in-
cluding any method which is feasible under available tech-
nology; or
(B) has restricted access to such communication by re-
quiring use of a verified credit card, debit account, adult
access code, or adult personal identification number.
(6) The Commission may describe measures which are rea-
sonable, effective, and appropriate to restrict access to prohib-
ited communications under subsection (d). Nothing in this sec-
tion authorizes the Commission to enforce, or is intended to
provide the Commission with the authority to approve, sanc-
tion, or permit, the use of such measures. The Commission
shall have no enforcement authority over the failure to utilize
such measures. The Commission shall not endorse specific
products relating to such measures. The use of such measures
shall be admitted as evidence of good faith efforts for purposes
of paragraph (5) in any action arising under subsection (d).
Nothing in this section shall be construed to treat interactive
computer services as common carriers or telecommunications
carriers.
(f)(1) No cause of action may be brought in any court or admin-
istrative agency against any person on account of any activity that
is not in violation of any law punishable by criminal or civil pen-
alty, and that the person has taken in good faith to implement a
defense authorized under this section or otherwise to restrict or
prevent the transmission of, or access to, a communication specified
in this section.
(2) No State or local government may impose any liability for
commercial activities or actions by commercial entities, nonprofit li-
braries, or institutions of higher education in connection with an
activity or action described in subsection (a)(2) or (d) that is incon-
sistent with the treatment of those activities or actions under this
section: Provided, however, That nothing herein shall preclude any
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
48Sec. 223 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
State or local government from enacting and enforcing complemen-
tary oversight, liability, and regulatory systems, procedures, and
requirements, so long as such systems, procedures, and require-
ments govern only intrastate services and do not result in the im-
position of inconsistent rights, duties or obligations on the provi-
sion of interstate services. Nothing in this subsection shall preclude
any State or local government from governing conduct not covered
by this section.
(g) Nothing in subsection (a), (d), (e), or (f) or in the defenses
to prosecution under subsection (a) or (d) shall be construed to af-
fect or limit the application or enforcement of any other Federal
law. (h) INTENTIONAL DISCLOSURE OF NONCONSENSUAL INTIMATE
VISUAL DEPICTIONS.—
(1) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection:
(A) CONSENT.—The term ‘‘consent’’ means an affirma-
tive, conscious, and voluntary authorization made by an
individual free from force, fraud, duress, misrepresenta-
tion, or coercion.
(B) DIGITAL FORGERY.—The term ‘‘digital forgery’’
means any intimate visual depiction of an identifiable indi-
vidual created through the use of software, machine learn-
ing, artificial intelligence, or any other computer-generated
or technological means, including by adapting, modifying,
manipulating, or altering an authentic visual depiction,
that, when viewed as a whole by a reasonable person, is
indistinguishable from an authentic visual depiction of the
individual.
(C) I DENTIFIABLE INDIVIDUAL.—The term ‘‘identifiable
individual’’ means an individual—
(i) who appears in whole or in part in an intimate
visual depiction; and
(ii) whose face, likeness, or other distinguishing
characteristic (including a unique birthmark or other
recognizable feature) is displayed in connection with
such intimate visual depiction.
(D) INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE.—The term
‘‘interactive computer service’’ has the meaning given the
term in section 230.
(E) I NTIMATE VISUAL DEPICTION.—The term ‘‘intimate
visual depiction’’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 1309 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2022 (15
U.S.C. 6851).
(F) MINOR.—The term ‘‘minor’’ means any individual
under the age of 18 years.
(2) OFFENSE INVOLVING AUTHENTIC INTIMATE VISUAL DEPIC-
TIONS.— (A) I NVOLVING ADULTS.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (C), it shall be unlawful for any person, in
interstate or foreign commerce, to use an interactive com-
puter service to knowingly publish an intimate visual de-
piction of an identifiable individual who is not a minor if—
(i) the intimate visual depiction was obtained or
created under circumstances in which the person knew
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
49 Sec. 223COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
or reasonably should have known the identifiable indi-
vidual had a reasonable expectation of privacy;
(ii) what is depicted was not voluntarily exposed
by the identifiable individual in a public or commercial
setting;
(iii) what is depicted is not a matter of public con-
cern; and
(iv) publication of the intimate visual depiction—
(I) is intended to cause harm; or
(II) causes harm, including psychological, fi-
nancial, or reputational harm, to the identifiable
individual.
(B) INVOLVING MINORS.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (C), it shall be unlawful for any person, in
interstate or foreign commerce, to use an interactive com-
puter service to knowingly publish an intimate visual de-
piction of an identifiable individual who is a minor with in-
tent to—(i) abuse, humiliate, harass, or degrade the minor;
or (ii) arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any per-
son.
(C) EXCEPTIONS.—Subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall not
apply to—
(i) a lawfully authorized investigative, protective,
or intelligence activity of—
(I) a law enforcement agency of the United
States, a State, or a political subdivision of a
State; or
(II) an intelligence agency of the United
States;
(ii) a disclosure made reasonably and in good
faith— (I) to a law enforcement officer or agency;
(II) as part of a document production or filing
associated with a legal proceeding;
(III) as part of medical education, diagnosis,
or treatment or for a legitimate medical, scientific,
or education purpose;
(IV) in the reporting of unlawful content or
unsolicited or unwelcome conduct or in pursuance
of a legal, professional, or other lawful obligation;
or (V) to seek support or help with respect to the
receipt of an unsolicited intimate visual depiction;
(iii) a disclosure reasonably intended to assist the
identifiable individual;
(iv) a person who possesses or publishes an inti-
mate visual depiction of himself or herself engaged in
nudity or sexually explicit conduct (as that term is de-
fined in section 2256(2)(A) of title 18, United States
Code); or
(v) the publication of an intimate visual depiction
that constitutes—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
50Sec. 223 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(I) child pornography (as that term is defined
in section 2256 of title 18, United States Code); or
(II) a visual depiction described in subsection
(a) or (b) of section 1466A of title 18, United
States Code (relating to obscene visual representa-
tions of the sexual abuse of children).
(3) OFFENSE INVOLVING DIGITAL FORGERIES.—
(A) INVOLVING ADULTS.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (C), it shall be unlawful for any person, in
interstate or foreign commerce, to use an interactive com-
puter service to knowingly publish a digital forgery of an
identifiable individual who is not a minor if—
(i) the digital forgery was published without the
consent of the identifiable individual;
(ii) what is depicted was not voluntarily exposed
by the identifiable individual in a public or commercial
setting;
(iii) what is depicted is not a matter of public con-
cern; and
(iv) publication of the digital forgery—
(I) is intended to cause harm; or
(II) causes harm, including psychological, fi-
nancial, or reputational harm, to the identifiable
individual.
(B) INVOLVING MINORS.—Except as provided in sub-
paragraph (C), it shall be unlawful for any person, in
interstate or foreign commerce, to use an interactive com-
puter service to knowingly publish a digital forgery of an
identifiable individual who is a minor with intent to—
(i) abuse, humiliate, harass, or degrade the minor;
or (ii) arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any per-
son.
(C) EXCEPTIONS.—Subparagraphs (A) and (B) shall not
apply to—
(i) a lawfully authorized investigative, protective,
or intelligence activity of—
(I) a law enforcement agency of the United
States, a State, or a political subdivision of a
State; or
(II) an intelligence agency of the United
States;
(ii) a disclosure made reasonably and in good
faith— (I) to a law enforcement officer or agency;
(II) as part of a document production or filing
associated with a legal proceeding;
(III) as part of medical education, diagnosis,
or treatment or for a legitimate medical, scientific,
or education purpose;
(IV) in the reporting of unlawful content or
unsolicited or unwelcome conduct or in pursuance
of a legal, professional, or other lawful obligation;
or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
51 Sec. 223COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(V) to seek support or help with respect to the
receipt of an unsolicited intimate visual depiction;
(iii) a disclosure reasonably intended to assist the
identifiable individual;
(iv) a person who possesses or publishes a digital
forgery of himself or herself engaged in nudity or sexu-
ally explicit conduct (as that term is defined in section
2256(2)(A) of title 18, United States Code); or
(v) the publication of an intimate visual depiction
that constitutes—
(I) child pornography (as that term is defined
in section 2256 of title 18, United States Code); or
(II) a visual depiction described in subsection
(a) or (b) of section 1466A of title 18, United
States Code (relating to obscene visual representa-
tions of the sexual abuse of children).
(4) PENALTIES.—
(A) OFFENSES INVOLVING ADULTS.—Any person who
violates paragraph (2)(A) or (3)(A) shall be fined under
title 18, United States Code, imprisoned not more than 2
years, or both.
(B) OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS.—Any person who
violates paragraph (2)(B) or (3)(B) shall be fined under
title 18, United States Code, imprisoned not more than 3
years, or both.
(5) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—For purposes of paragraphs
(2) and (3)—
(A) the fact that the identifiable individual provided
consent for the creation of the intimate visual depiction
shall not establish that the individual provided consent for
the publication of the intimate visual depiction; and
(B) the fact that the identifiable individual disclosed
the intimate visual depiction to another individual shall
not establish that the identifiable individual provided con-
sent for the publication of the intimate visual depiction by
the person alleged to have violated paragraph (2) or (3), re-
spectively.
(6) THREATS.—
(A) THREATS INVOLVING AUTHENTIC INTIMATE VISUAL
DEPICTIONS.—Any person who intentionally threatens to
commit an offense under paragraph (2) for the purpose of
intimidation, coercion, extortion, or to create mental dis-
tress shall be punished as provided in paragraph (4).
(B) THREATS INVOLVING DIGITAL FORGERIES.—
(i) THREATS INVOLVING ADULTS.—Any person who
intentionally threatens to commit an offense under
paragraph (3)(A) for the purpose of intimidation, coer-
cion, extortion, or to create mental distress shall be
fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned
not more than 18 months, or both.
(ii) THREATS INVOLVING MINORS.—Any person who
intentionally threatens to commit an offense under
paragraph (3)(B) for the purpose of intimidation, coer-
cion, extortion, or to create mental distress shall be
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
52Sec. 223 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned
not more than 30 months, or both.
(7) FORFEITURE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The court, in imposing a sentence on
any person convicted of a violation of paragraph (2) or (3),
shall order, in addition to any other sentence imposed and
irrespective of any provision of State law, that the person
forfeit to the United States—
(i) any material distributed in violation of that
paragraph;
(ii) the person’s interest in property, real or per-
sonal, constituting or derived from any gross proceeds
of the violation, or any property traceable to such
property, obtained or retained directly or indirectly as
a result of the violation; and
(iii) any personal property of the person used, or
intended to be used, in any manner or part, to commit
or to facilitate the commission of the violation.
(B) PROCEDURES.—Section 413 of the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 853), with the exception of sub-
sections (a) and (d), shall apply to the criminal forfeiture
of property under subparagraph (A).
(8) RESTITUTION.—The court shall order restitution for an
offense under paragraph (2) or (3) in the same manner as
under section 2264 of title 18, United States Code.
(9) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection
shall be construed to limit the application of any other relevant
law, including section 2252 of title 18, United States Code.
(i) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section—
(1) The use of the term ‘‘telecommunications device’’ in this
section—
(A) shall not impose new obligations on broadcasting
station licensees and cable operators covered by obscenity
and indecency provisions elsewhere in this Act;
(B) does not include an interactive computer service;
and
(C) in the case of subparagraph (C) of subsection
(a)(1), includes any device or software that can be used to
originate telecommunications or other types of communica-
tions that are transmitted, in whole or in part, by the
Internet (as such term is defined in section 1104 of the
Internet Tax Freedom Act (47 U.S.C. 151 note)).
(2) The term ‘‘interactive computer service’’ has the mean-
ing provided in section 230(f)(2).
(3) The term ‘‘access software’’ means software (including
client or server software) or enabling tools that do not create
or provide the content of the communication but that allow a
user to do any one or more of the following:
(A) filter, screen, allow, or disallow content;
(B) pick, choose, analyze, or digest content; or
(C) transmit, receive, display, forward, cache, search,
subset, organize, reorganize, or translate content.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
53 Sec. 224COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
5 So in law. The Library Services and Construction Act (20 U.S.C. 355e et seq.) was repealed
by section 708(a) of Public Law 104–208 (110 Stat. 3009–312).
6 Indentation so in original.
(4) The term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the
meaning provided in section 101 of the Higher Education Act
of 1965.
(5) The term ‘‘library’’ means a library eligible for partici-
pation in State-based plans for funds under title III of the Li-
brary Services and Construction Act (20 U.S.C. 355e et seq.) 5 .
SEC. 224. ø47 U.S.C. 224¿ REGULATION OF POLE ATTACHMENTS.
(a) As used in this section:
(1) The term ‘‘utility’’ means any person who is a local ex-
change carrier or an electric, gas, water, steam, or other public util-
ity, and who owns or controls poles, ducts, conduits, or rights-of-
way used, in whole or in part, for any wire communications. Such
term does not include any railroad, any person who is cooperatively
organized, or any person owned by the Federal Government or any
State.
(2) The term ‘‘Federal Government’’ means the Government of
the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof.
(3) The term ‘‘State’’ means any State, territory, or possession
of the United States, the District of Columbia, or any political sub-
division, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
(4) The term ‘‘pole attachment’’ means any attachment by a
cable television system or provider of telecommunications service to
a pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-way owned or controlled by a util-
ity.
(5) 6 For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘telecommuni-
cations carrier’’ (as defined in section 3 of this Act) does not in-
clude any incumbent local exchange carrier as defined in sec-
tion 251(h).
(b)(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (c) of this section,
the Commission shall regulate the rates, terms, and conditions for
pole attachments to provide that such rates, terms, and conditions
are just and reasonable, and shall adopt procedures necessary and
appropriate to hear and resolve complaints concerning such rates,
terms, and conditions. For purposes of enforcing any determina-
tions resulting from complaint procedures established pursuant to
this subsection, the Commission shall take such action as it deems
appropriate and necessary, including issuing cease and desist or-
ders, as authorized by section 312(b) of title III of the Communica-
tions Act of 1934, as amended.
(2) The Commission shall prescribe by rule regulations to carry
out the provisions of this section.
(c)(1) Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to, or
to give the Commission jurisdiction with respect to rates, terms,
and conditions, or access to poles, ducts, conduits, and rights-of-
way as provided in subsection (f), for pole attachments in any case
where such matters are regulated by a State.
(2) Each State which regulates the rates, terms, and conditions
for pole attachments shall certify to the Commission that—
(A) it regulates such rates, terms, and conditions; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
54Sec. 224 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) in so regulating such rates, terms, and conditions, the
State has the authority to consider and does consider the inter-
ests of the subscribers of the services offered via such attach-
ments, as well as the interests of the consumers of the utility
services.
(3) For purposes of this subsection, a State shall not be consid-
ered to regulate the rates, terms, and conditions for pole attach-
ments— (A) unless the State has issued and made effective rules
and regulations implementing the State’s regulatory authority
over pole attachments; and
(B) with respect to any individual matter, unless the State
takes final action on a complaint regarding such matter—
(i) within 180 days after the complaint is filed with
the State, or
(ii) within the applicable period prescribed for such
final action in such rules and regulations of the State, if
the prescribed period does not extend beyond 360 days
after the filing of such complaint.
(d)(1) For purposes of subsection (b) of this section, a rate is
just and reasonable if it assures a utility the recovery of not less
than the additional costs of providing pole attachments, nor more
than an amount determined by multiplying the percentage of the
total usable space, or the percentage of the total duct or conduit ca-
pacity, which is occupied by the pole attachment by the sum of the
operating expenses and actual capital costs of the utility attrib-
utable to the entire pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-way.
(2) As used in this subsection, the term ‘‘usable space’’ means
the space above the minimum grade level which can be used for the
attachment of wires, cables, and associated equipment.
(3) This subsection shall apply to the rate for any pole attach-
ment used by a cable television system solely to provide cable serv-
ice. Until the effective date of the regulations required under sub-
section (e), this subsection shall also apply to the rate for any pole
attachment used by a cable system or any telecommunications car-
rier (to the extent such carrier is not a party to a pole attachment
agreement) to provide any telecommunications service.
(e)(1) The Commission shall, no later than 2 years after the
date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, prescribe
regulations in accordance with this subsection to govern the
charges for pole attachments used by telecommunications carriers
to provide telecommunications services, when the parties fail to re-
solve a dispute over such charges. Such regulations shall ensure
that a utility charges just, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory rates
for pole attachments.
(2) A utility shall apportion the cost of providing space on a
pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-way other than the usable space
among entities so that such apportionment equals two-thirds of the
costs of providing space other than the usable space that would be
allocated to such entity under an equal apportionment of such costs
among all attaching entities.
(3) A utility shall apportion the cost of providing usable space
among all entities according to the percentage of usable space re-
quired for each entity.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
55 Sec. 225COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
7 So in law. Probably should read ‘‘nondiscriminatory’’.
(4) The regulations required under paragraph (1) shall become
effective 5 years after the date of enactment of the Telecommuni-
cations Act of 1996. Any increase in the rates for pole attachments
that result from the adoption of the regulations required by this
subsection shall be phased in equal annual increments over a pe-
riod of 5 years beginning on the effective date of such regulations.
(f)(1) A utility shall provide a cable television system or any
telecommunications carrier with nondiscriminatory access to any
pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-way owned or controlled by it.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), a utility providing electric
service may deny a cable television system or any telecommuni-
cations carrier access to its poles, ducts, conduits, or rights-of-way,
on a non-discriminatory 7 basis where there is insufficient capacity
and for reasons of safety, reliability and generally applicable engi-
neering purposes.
(g) A utility that engages in the provision of telecommuni-
cations services or cable services shall impute to its costs of pro-
viding such services (and charge any affiliate, subsidiary, or asso-
ciate company engaged in the provision of such services) an equal
amount to the pole attachment rate for which such company would
be liable under this section.
(h) Whenever the owner of a pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-way
intends to modify or alter such pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-way,
the owner shall provide written notification of such action to any
entity that has obtained an attachment to such conduit or right-of-
way so that such entity may have a reasonable opportunity to add
to or modify its existing attachment. Any entity that adds to or
modifies its existing attachment after receiving such notification
shall bear a proportionate share of the costs incurred by the owner
in making such pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-way accessible.
(i) An entity that obtains an attachment to a pole, conduit, or
right-of-way shall not be required to bear any of the costs of rear-
ranging or replacing its attachment, if such rearrangement or re-
placement is required as a result of an additional attachment or
the modification of an existing attachment sought by any other en-
tity (including the owner of such pole, duct, conduit, or right-of-
way).
SEC. 225. ø47 U.S.C. 225¿ TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FOR HEAR-
ING-IMPAIRED AND SPEECH-IMPAIRED INDIVIDUALS.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
(1) COMMON CARRIER OR CARRIER.—The term ‘‘common car-
rier’’ or ‘‘carrier’’ includes any common carrier engaged in
interstate communication by wire or radio as defined in section
3 and any common carrier engaged in intrastate communica-
tion by wire or radio, notwithstanding sections 2(b) and 221(b).
(2) TDD.—The term ‘‘TDD’’ means a Telecommunications
Device for the Deaf, which is a machine that employs graphic
communication in the transmission of coded signals through a
wire or radio communication system.
(3) TELECOMMUNICATIONS RELAY SERVICES.—The term
‘‘telecommunications relay services’’ means telephone trans-
mission services that provide the ability for an individual who
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
56Sec. 225 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
is deaf, hard of hearing, deaf-blind, or who has a speech dis-
ability to engage in communication by wire or radio with one
or more individuals, in a manner that is functionally equiva-
lent to the ability of a hearing individual who does not have
a speech disability to communicate using voice communication
services by wire or radio.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS RELAY SERVICES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In order to carry out the purposes estab-
lished under section 1, to make available to all individuals in
the United States a rapid, efficient nationwide communication
service, and to increase the utility of the telephone system of
the Nation, the Commission shall ensure that interstate and
intrastate telecommunications relay services are available, to
the extent possible and in the most efficient manner, to hear-
ing-impaired and speech-impaired individuals in the United
States.
(2) USE OF GENERAL AUTHORITY AND REMEDIES.—For the
purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
section and the regulations prescribed thereunder, the Com-
mission shall have the same authority, power, and functions
with respect to common carriers engaged in intrastate commu-
nication as the Commission has in administering and enforcing
the provisions of this title with respect to any common carrier
engaged in interstate communication. Any violation of this sec-
tion by any common carrier engaged in intrastate communica-
tion shall be subject to the same remedies, penalties, and pro-
cedures as are applicable to a violation of this Act by a com-
mon carrier engaged in interstate communication.
(c) PROVISION OF SERVICES.—Each common carrier providing
telephone voice transmission services shall, not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this section, provide in compliance
with the regulations prescribed under this section, throughout the
area in which it offers service, telecommunications relay services,
individually, through designees, through a competitively selected
vendor, or in concert with other carriers. A common carrier shall
be considered to be in compliance with such regulations—
(1) with respect to intrastate telecommunications relay
services in any State that does not have a certified program
under subsection (f) and with respect to interstate tele-
communications relay services, if such common carrier (or
other entity through which the carrier is providing such relay
services) is in compliance with the Commission’s regulations
under subsection (d); or
(2) with respect to intrastate telecommunications relay
services in any State that has a certified program under sub-
section (f) for such State, if such common carrier (or other enti-
ty through which the carrier is providing such relay services)
is in compliance with the program certified under subsection (f)
for such State.
(d) REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall, not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this section, prescribe regu-
lations to implement this section, including regulations that—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
57 Sec. 225COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(A) establish functional requirements, guidelines, and
operations procedures for telecommunications relay serv-
ices;(B) establish minimum standards that shall be met in
carrying out subsection (c);
(C) require that telecommunications relay services op-
erate every day for 24 hours per day;
(D) require that users of telecommunications relay
services pay rates no greater than the rates paid for func-
tionally equivalent voice communication services with re-
spect to such factors as the duration of the call, the time
of day, and the distance from point of origination to point
of termination;
(E) prohibit relay operators from failing to fulfill the
obligations of common carriers by refusing calls or limiting
the length of calls that use telecommunications relay serv-
ices;(F) prohibit relay operators from disclosing the content
of any relayed conversation and from keeping records of
the content of any such conversation beyond the duration
of the call; and
(G) prohibit relay operators from intentionally altering
a relayed conversation.
(2) TECHNOLOGY.—The Commission shall ensure that regu-
lations prescribed to implement this section encourage, con-
sistent with section 7(a) of this Act, the use of existing tech-
nology and do not discourage or impair the development of im-
proved technology.
(3) JURISDICTIONAL SEPARATION OF COSTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Consistent with the provisions of
section 410 of this Act, the Commission shall prescribe reg-
ulations governing the jurisdictional separation of costs for
the services provided pursuant to this section.
(B) RECOVERING COSTS.—Such regulations shall gen-
erally provide that costs caused by interstate telecommuni-
cations relay services shall be recovered from all sub-
scribers for every interstate service and costs caused by
intrastate telecommunications relay services shall be re-
covered from the intrastate jurisdiction. In a State that
has a certified program under subsection (f), a State com-
mission shall permit a common carrier to recover the costs
incurred in providing intrastate telecommunications relay
services by a method consistent with the requirements of
this section.
(e) ENFORCEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsections (f) and (g), the
Commission shall enforce this section.
(2) COMPLAINT.—The Commission shall resolve, by final
order, a complaint alleging a violation of this section within
180 days after the date such complaint is filed.
(f) CERTIFICATION.—
(1) STATE DOCUMENTATION.—Any State desiring to estab-
lish a State program under this section shall submit docu-
mentation to the Commission that describes the program of
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
58Sec. 226 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
such State for implementing intrastate telecommunications
relay services and the procedures and remedies available for
enforcing any requirements imposed by the State program.
(2) REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTIFICATION.—After review of
such documentation, the Commission shall certify the State
program if the Commission determines that—
(A) the program makes available to hearing-impaired
and speech-impaired individuals, either directly, through
designees, through a competitively selected vendor, or
through regulation of intrastate common carriers, intra-
state telecommunications relay services in such State in a
manner that meets or exceeds the requirements of regula-
tions prescribed by the Commission under subsection (d);
and
(B) the program makes available adequate procedures
and remedies for enforcing the requirements of the State
program.
(3) METHOD OF FUNDING.—Except as provided in sub-
section (d), the Commission shall not refuse to certify a State
program based solely on the method such State will implement
for funding intrastate telecommunication relay services.
(4) SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATION.—The
Commission may suspend or revoke such certification if, after
notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission determines
that such certification is no longer warranted. In a State whose
program has been suspended or revoked, the Commission shall
take such steps as may be necessary, consistent with this sec-
tion, to ensure continuity of telecommunications relay services.
(g) C OMPLAINT.—
(1) REFERRAL OF COMPLAINT.—If a complaint to the Com-
mission alleges a violation of this section with respect to intra-
state telecommunications relay services within a State and cer-
tification of the program of such State under subsection (f) is
in effect, the Commission shall refer such complaint to such
State.
(2) JURISDICTION OF COMMISSION.—After referring a com-
plaint to a State under paragraph (1), the Commission shall
exercise jurisdiction over such complaint only if—
(A) final action under such State program has not
been taken on such complaint by such State—
(i) within 180 days after the complaint is filed
with such State; or
(ii) within a shorter period as prescribed by the
regulations of such State; or
(B) the Commission determines that such State pro-
gram is no longer qualified for certification under sub-
section (f).
SEC. 226. ø47 U.S.C. 226¿ TELEPHONE OPERATOR SERVICES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
(1) The term ‘‘access code’’ means a sequence of numbers
that, when dialed, connect the caller to the provider of operator
services associated with that sequence.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
59 Sec. 226COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) The term ‘‘aggregator’’ means any person that, in the
ordinary course of its operations, makes telephones available to
the public or to transient users of its premises, for interstate
telephone calls using a provider of operator services.
(3) The term ‘‘call splashing’’ means the transfer of a tele-
phone call from one provider of operator services to another
such provider in such a manner that the subsequent provider
is unable or unwilling to determine the location of the origina-
tion of the call and, because of such inability or unwillingness,
is prevented from billing the call on the basis of such location.
(4) The term ‘‘consumer’’ means a person initiating any
interstate telephone call using operator services.
(5) The term ‘‘equal access’’ has the meaning given that
term in Appendix B of the Modification of Final Judgment en-
tered August 24, 1982, in United States v. Western Electric,
Civil Action No. 82–0192 (United States District Court, District
of Columbia), as amended by the Court in its orders issued
prior to the enactment of this section.
(6) The term ‘‘equal access code’’ means an access code that
allows the public to obtain an equal access connection to the
carrier associated with that code.
(7) The term ‘‘operator services’’ means any interstate tele-
communications service initiated from an aggregator location
that includes, as a component, any automatic or live assistance
to a consumer to arrange for billing or completion, or both, of
an interstate telephone call through a method other than—
(A) automatic completion with billing to the telephone
from which the call originated; or
(B) completion through an access code used by the con-
sumer, with billing to an account previously established
with the carrier by the consumer.
(8) The term ‘‘presubscribed provider of operator services’’
means the interstate provider of operator services to which the
consumer is connected when the consumer places a call using
a provider of operator services without dialing an access code.
(9) The term ‘‘provider of operator services’’ means any
common carrier that provides operator services or any other
person determined by the Commission to be providing operator
services.
(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR PROVIDERS OF OPERATOR SERVICES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Beginning not later than 90 days after
the date of enactment of this section, each provider of operator
services shall, at a minimum—
(A) identify itself, audibly and distinctly, to the con-
sumer at the beginning of each telephone call and before
the consumer incurs any charge for the call;
(B) permit the consumer to terminate the telephone
call at no charge before the call is connected;
(C) disclose immediately to the consumer, upon re-
quest and at no charge to the consumer—
(i) a quote of its rates or charges for the call;
(ii) the methods by which such rates or charges
will be collected; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
60Sec. 226 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(iii) the methods by which complaints concerning
such rates, charges, or collection practices will be re-
solved;
(D) ensure, by contract or tariff, that each aggregator
for which such provider is the presubscribed provider of
operator services is in compliance with the requirements of
subsection (c) and, if applicable, subsection (e)(1);
(E) withhold payment (on a location-by-location basis)
of any compensation, including commissions, to
aggregators if such provider reasonably believes that the
aggregator (i) is blocking access by means of ‘‘950’’ or ‘‘800’’
numbers to interstate common carriers in violation of sub-
section (c)(1)(B) or (ii) is blocking access to equal access
codes in violation of rules the Commission may prescribe
under subsection (e)(1);
(F) not bill for unanswered telephone calls in areas
where equal access is available;
(G) not knowingly bill for unanswered telephone calls
where equal access is not available;
(H) not engage in call splashing, unless the consumer
requests to be transferred to another provider of operator
services, the consumer is informed prior to incurring any
charges that the rates for the call may not reflect the rates
from the actual originating location of the call, and the
consumer then consents to be transferred; and
(I) except as provided in subparagraph (H), not bill for
a call that does not reflect the location of the origination
of the call.
(2) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR FIRST 3 YEARS.—In ad-
dition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (1), during the
3-year period beginning on the date that is 90 days after the
date of enactment of this section, each presubscribed provider
of operator services shall identify itself audibly and distinctly
to the consumer, not only as required in paragraph (1)(A), but
also for a second time before connecting the call and before the
consumer incurs any charge.
(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR AGGREGATORS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each aggregator, beginning not later
than 90 days after the date of enactment of this section,
shall—
(A) post on or near the telephone instrument, in plain
view of consumers—
(i) the name, address, and toll-free telephone num-
ber of the provider of operator services;
(ii) a written disclosure that the rates for all oper-
ator-assisted calls are available on request, and that
consumers have a right to obtain access to the inter-
state common carrier of their choice and may contact
their preferred interstate common carriers for infor-
mation on accessing that carrier’s service using that
telephone; and
(iii) the name and address of the enforcement divi-
sion of the Common Carrier Bureau of the Commis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
61 Sec. 226COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
sion, to which the consumer may direct complaints re-
garding operator services;
(B) ensure that each of its telephones presubscribed to
a provider of operator services allows the consumer to use
‘‘800’’ and ‘‘950’’ access code numbers to obtain access to
the provider of operator services desired by the consumer;
and (C) ensure that no charge by the aggregator to the
consumer for using an ‘‘800’’ or ‘‘950’’ access code number,
or any other access code number, is greater than the
amount the aggregator charges for calls placed using the
presubscribed provider of operator services.
(2) EFFECT OF STATE LAW OR REGULATION.—The require-
ments of paragraph (1)(A) shall not apply to an aggregator in
any case in which State law or State regulation requires the
aggregator to take actions that are substantially the same as
those required in paragraph (1)(A).
(d) GENERAL RULEMAKING REQUIRED.—
(1) R ULEMAKING PROCEEDING.—The Commission shall con-
duct a rulemaking proceeding pursuant to this title to pre-
scribe regulations to—
(A) protect consumers from unfair and deceptive prac-
tices relating to their use of operator services to place
interstate telephone calls; and
(B) ensure that consumers have the opportunity to
make informed choices in making such calls.
(2) CONTENTS OF REGULATIONS.—The regulations pre-
scribed under this section shall—
(A) contain provisions to implement each of the re-
quirements of this section, other than the requirements es-
tablished by the rulemaking under subsection (e) on access
and compensation; and
(B) contain such other provisions as the Commission
determines necessary to carry out this section and the pur-
poses and policies of this section.
(3) ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS TO BE IMPLEMENTED BY
REGULATIONS.—The regulations prescribed under this section
shall, at a minimum—
(A) establish minimum standards for providers of op-
erator services and aggregators to use in the routing and
handling of emergency telephone calls; and
(B) establish a policy for requiring providers of oper-
ator services to make public information about recent
changes in operator services and choices available to con-
sumers in that market.
(e) SEPARATE RULEMAKING ON ACCESS AND COMPENSATION.—
(1) ACCESS.—The Commission, shall require—
(A) that each aggregator ensure within a reasonable
time that each of its telephones presubscribed to a pro-
vider of operator services allows the consumer to obtain ac-
cess to the provider of operator services desired by the con-
sumer through the use of an equal access code; or
(B) that all providers of operator services, within a
reasonable time, make available to their customers a ‘‘950’’
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
62Sec. 226 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
or ‘‘800’’ access code number for use in making operator
services calls from anywhere in the United States; or
(C) that the requirements described under both sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B) apply.
(2) COMPENSATION.—The Commission shall consider the
need to prescribe compensation (other than advance payment
by consumers) for owners of competitive public pay telephones
for calls routed to providers of operator services that are other
than the presubscribed provider of operator services for such
telephones. Within 9 months after the date of enactment of
this section, the Commission shall reach a final decision on
whether to prescribe such compensation.
(f) TECHNOLOGICAL CAPABILITY OF EQUIPMENT.—Any equip-
ment and software manufactured or imported more than 18 months
after the date of enactment of this section and installed by any
aggregator shall be technologically capable of providing consumers
with access to interstate providers of operator services through the
use of equal access codes.
(g) FRAUD.—In any proceeding to carry out the provisions of
this section, the Commission shall require such actions or meas-
ures as are necessary to ensure that aggregators are not exposed
to undue risk of fraud.
(h) DETERMINATIONS OF RATE COMPLIANCE.—
(1) FILING OF INFORMATIONAL TARIFF.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—Each provider of operator services
shall file, within 90 days after the date of enactment of
this section, and shall maintain, update regularly, and
keep open for public inspection, an informational tariff
specifying rates, terms, and conditions, and including com-
missions, surcharges, any fees which are collected from
consumers, and reasonable estimates of the amount of
traffic priced at each rate, with respect to calls for which
operator services are provided. Any changes in such rates,
terms, or conditions shall be filed no later than the first
day on which the changed rates, terms, or conditions are
in effect.
(B) WAIVER AUTHORITY.—The Commission may, after 4
years following the date of enactment of this section, waive
the requirements of this paragraph only if—
(i) the findings and conclusions of the Commission
in the final report issued under paragraph (3)(B)(iii)
state that the regulatory objectives specified in sub-
section (d)(1) (A) and (B) have been achieved; and
(ii) the Commission determines that such waiver
will not adversely affect the continued achievement of
such regulatory objectives.
(2) REVIEW OF INFORMATIONAL TARIFFS.—If the rates and
charges filed by any provider of operator services under para-
graph (1) appear upon review by the Commission to be unjust
or unreasonable, the Commission may require such provider of
operator services to do either or both of the following:
(A) demonstrate that its rates and charges are just
and reasonable, and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
63 Sec. 226COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) announce that its rates are available on request at
the beginning of each call.
(3) PROCEEDING REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Within 60 days after the date of en-
actment of this section, the Commission shall initiate a
proceeding to determine whether the regulatory objectives
specified in subsection (d)(1) (A) and (B) are being
achieved. The proceeding shall—
(i) monitor operator service rates;
(ii) determine the extent to which offerings made
by providers of operator services are improvements, in
terms of service quality, price, innovation, and other
factors, over those available before the entry of new
providers of operator services into the market;
(iii) report on (in the aggregate and by individual
provider) operator service rates, incidence of service
complaints, and service offerings;
(iv) consider the effect that commissions and sur-
charges, billing and validation costs, and other costs of
doing business have on the overall rates charged to
consumers; and
(v) monitor compliance with the provisions of this
section, including the periodic placement of telephone
calls from aggregator locations.
(B) REPORTS.—(i) The Commission shall, during the
pendency of such proceeding and not later than 5 months
after its commencement, provide the Congress with an in-
terim report on the Commission’s activities and progress to
date.
(ii) Not later than 11 months after the commencement
of such proceeding, the Commission shall report to the
Congress on its interim findings as a result of the pro-
ceeding.
(iii) Not later than 23 months after the commencement
of such proceeding, the Commission shall submit a final
report to the Congress on its findings and conclusions.
(4) IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Unless the Commission makes the
determination described in subparagraph (B), the Commis-
sion shall, within 180 days after submission of the report
required under paragraph (3)(B)(iii), complete a rule-
making proceeding pursuant to this title to establish regu-
lations for implementing the requirements of this title
(and paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection) that rates
and charges for operator services be just and reasonable.
Such regulations shall include limitations on the amount
of commissions or any other compensation given to
aggregators by providers of operator service.
(B) LIMITATION.—The requirement of subparagraph
(A) shall not apply if, on the basis of the proceeding under
paragraph (3)(A), the Commission makes (and includes in
the report required by paragraph (3)(B)(iii)) a factual de-
termination that market forces are securing rates and
charges that are just and reasonable, as evidenced by rate
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
64Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
levels, costs, complaints, service quality, and other rel-
evant factors.
(i) STATUTORY CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section shall be
construed to alter the obligations, powers, or duties of common car-
riers or the Commission under the other sections of this Act.
SEC. 227. ø47 U.S.C. 227¿ RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF TELEPHONE
EQUIPMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
(1) The term ‘‘automatic telephone dialing system’’ means
equipment which has the capacity—
(A) to store or produce telephone numbers to be called,
using a random or sequential number generator; and
(B) to dial such numbers.
(2) The term ‘‘established business relationship’’, for pur-
poses only of subsection (b)(1)(C)(i), shall have the meaning
given the term in section 64.1200 of title 47, Code of Federal
Regulations, as in effect on January 1, 2003, except that—
(A) such term shall include a relationship between a
person or entity and a business subscriber subject to the
same terms applicable under such section to a relationship
between a person or entity and a residential subscriber;
and
(B) an established business relationship shall be sub-
ject to any time limitation established pursuant to para-
graph (2)(G)).
(3) The term ‘‘telephone facsimile machine’’ means equip-
ment which has the capacity (A) to transcribe text or images,
or both, from paper into an electronic signal and to transmit
that signal over a regular telephone line, or (B) to transcribe
text or images (or both) from an electronic signal received over
a regular telephone line onto paper.
(4) The term ‘‘telephone solicitation’’ means the initiation
of a telephone call or message for the purpose of encouraging
the purchase or rental of, or investment in, property, goods, or
services, which is transmitted to any person, but such term
does not include a call or message (A) to any person with that
person’s prior express invitation or permission, (B) to any per-
son with whom the caller has an established business relation-
ship, or (C) by a tax exempt nonprofit organization.
(5) The term ‘‘unsolicited advertisement’’ means any mate-
rial advertising the commercial availability or quality of any
property, goods, or services which is transmitted to any person
without that person’s prior express invitation or permission, in
writing or otherwise.
(b) RESTRICTIONS ON THE USE OF AUTOMATED TELEPHONE
EQUIPMENT.—
(1) PROHIBITIONS.—It shall be unlawful for any person
within the United States, or any person outside the United
States if the recipient is within the United States—
(A) to make any call (other than a call made for emer-
gency purposes or made with the prior express consent of
the called party) using any automatic telephone dialing
system or an artificial or prerecorded voice—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
65 Sec. 227COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(i) to any emergency telephone line (including any
‘‘911’’ line and any emergency line of a hospital, med-
ical physician or service office, health care facility, poi-
son control center, or fire protection or law enforce-
ment agency);
(ii) to the telephone line of any guest room or pa-
tient room of a hospital, health care facility, elderly
home, or similar establishment; or
(iii) to any telephone number assigned to a paging
service, cellular telephone service, specialized mobile
radio service, or other radio common carrier service, or
any service for which the called party is charged for
the call, unless such call is made solely to collect a
debt owed to or guaranteed by the United States;
(B) to initiate any telephone call to any residential
telephone line using an artificial or prerecorded voice to
deliver a message without the prior express consent of the
called party, unless the call is initiated for emergency pur-
poses, is made solely pursuant to the collection of a debt
owed to or guaranteed by the United States, or is exempt-
ed by rule or order by the Commission under paragraph
(2)(B);
(C) to use any telephone facsimile machine, computer,
or other device to send, to a telephone facsimile machine,
an unsolicited advertisement, unless—
(i) the unsolicited advertisement is from a sender
with an established business relationship with the re-
cipient;
(ii) the sender obtained the number of the tele-
phone facsimile machine through—
(I) the voluntary communication of such num-
ber, within the context of such established busi-
ness relationship, from the recipient of the unso-
licited advertisement, or
(II) a directory, advertisement, or site on the
Internet to which the recipient voluntarily agreed
to make available its facsimile number for public
distribution,
except that this clause shall not apply in the case of
an unsolicited advertisement that is sent based on an
established business relationship with the recipient
that was in existence before the date of enactment of
the Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005 if the sender pos-
sessed the facsimile machine number of the recipient
before such date of enactment; and
(iii) the unsolicited advertisement contains a no-
tice meeting the requirements under paragraph (2)(D),
except that the exception under clauses (i) and (ii) shall
not apply with respect to an unsolicited advertisement
sent to a telephone facsimile machine by a sender to whom
a request has been made not to send future unsolicited ad-
vertisements to such telephone facsimile machine that
complies with the requirements under paragraph (2)(E); or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
66Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(D) to use an automatic telephone dialing system in
such a way that two or more telephone lines of a multi-
line business are engaged simultaneously.
(2) REGULATIONS; EXEMPTIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS.—
The Commission shall prescribe regulations to implement the
requirements of this subsection. In implementing the require-
ments of this subsection, the Commission—
(A) shall consider prescribing regulations to allow
businesses to avoid receiving calls made using an artificial
or prerecorded voice to which they have not given their
prior express consent;
(B) may, by rule or order, exempt from the require-
ments of paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection, subject to
such conditions as the Commission may prescribe—
(i) calls that are not made for a commercial pur-
pose; and
(ii) such classes or categories of calls made for
commercial purposes as the Commission determines—
(I) will not adversely affect the privacy rights
that this section is intended to protect; and
(II) do not include the transmission of any un-
solicited advertisement;
(C) may, by rule or order, exempt from the require-
ments of paragraph (1)(A)(iii) of this subsection calls to a
telephone number assigned to a cellular telephone service
that are not charged to the called party, subject to such
conditions as the Commission may prescribe as necessary
in the interest of the privacy rights this section is intended
to protect;
(D) shall provide that a notice contained in an unsolic-
ited advertisement complies with the requirements under
this subparagraph only if—
(i) the notice is clear and conspicuous and on the
first page of the unsolicited advertisement;
(ii) the notice states that the recipient may make
a request to the sender of the unsolicited advertise-
ment not to send any future unsolicited advertise-
ments to a telephone facsimile machine or machines
and that failure to comply, within the shortest reason-
able time, as determined by the Commission, with
such a request meeting the requirements under sub-
paragraph (E) is unlawful;
(iii) the notice sets forth the requirements for a re-
quest under subparagraph (E);
(iv) the notice includes—
(I) a domestic contact telephone and facsimile
machine number for the recipient to transmit such
a request to the sender; and
(II) a cost-free mechanism for a recipient to
transmit a request pursuant to such notice to the
sender of the unsolicited advertisement; the Com-
mission shall by rule require the sender to provide
such a mechanism and may, in the discretion of
the Commission and subject to such conditions as
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
67 Sec. 227COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the Commission may prescribe, exempt certain
classes of small business senders, but only if the
Commission determines that the costs to such
class are unduly burdensome given the revenues
generated by such small businesses;
(v) the telephone and facsimile machine numbers
and the cost-free mechanism set forth pursuant to
clause (iv) permit an individual or business to make
such a request at any time on any day of the week;
and (vi) the notice complies with the requirements of
subsection (d);
(E) shall provide, by rule, that a request not to send
future unsolicited advertisements to a telephone facsimile
machine complies with the requirements under this sub-
paragraph only if—
(i) the request identifies the telephone number or
numbers of the telephone facsimile machine or ma-
chines to which the request relates;
(ii) the request is made to the telephone or fac-
simile number of the sender of such an unsolicited ad-
vertisement provided pursuant to subparagraph (D)(iv)
or by any other method of communication as deter-
mined by the Commission; and
(iii) the person making the request has not, subse-
quent to such request, provided express invitation or
permission to the sender, in writing or otherwise, to
send such advertisements to such person at such tele-
phone facsimile machine;
(F) may, in the discretion of the Commission and sub-
ject to such conditions as the Commission may prescribe,
allow professional or trade associations that are tax-ex-
empt nonprofit organizations to send unsolicited advertise-
ments to their members in furtherance of the association’s
tax-exempt purpose that do not contain the notice required
by paragraph (1)(C)(iii), except that the Commission may
take action under this subparagraph only—
(i) by regulation issued after public notice and op-
portunity for public comment; and
(ii) if the Commission determines that such notice
required by paragraph (1)(C)(iii) is not necessary to
protect the ability of the members of such associations
to stop such associations from sending any future un-
solicited advertisements;
(G)(i) may, consistent with clause (ii), limit the dura-
tion of the existence of an established business relation-
ship, however, before establishing any such limits, the
Commission shall—
(I) determine whether the existence of the excep-
tion under paragraph (1)(C) relating to an established
business relationship has resulted in a significant
number of complaints to the Commission regarding
the sending of unsolicited advertisements to telephone
facsimile machines;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
68Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(II) determine whether a significant number of
any such complaints involve unsolicited advertise-
ments that were sent on the basis of an established
business relationship that was longer in duration than
the Commission believes is consistent with the reason-
able expectations of consumers;
(III) evaluate the costs to senders of dem-
onstrating the existence of an established business re-
lationship within a specified period of time and the
benefits to recipients of establishing a limitation on
such established business relationship; and
(IV) determine whether with respect to small busi-
nesses, the costs would not be unduly burdensome;
and
(ii) may not commence a proceeding to determine
whether to limit the duration of the existence of an estab-
lished business relationship before the expiration of the 3-
month period that begins on the date of the enactment of
the Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005;
(H) may restrict or limit the number and duration of
calls made to a telephone number assigned to a cellular
telephone service to collect a debt owed to or guaranteed
by the United States; and
(I) shall ensure that any exemption under subpara-
graph (B) or (C) contains requirements for calls made in
reliance on the exemption with respect to—
(i) the classes of parties that may make such calls;
(ii) the classes of parties that may be called; and
(iii) the number of such calls that a calling party
may make to a particular called party.
(3) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—A person or entity may, if
otherwise permitted by the laws or rules of court of a State,
bring in an appropriate court of that State—
(A) an action based on a violation of this subsection or
the regulations prescribed under this subsection to enjoin
such violation,
(B) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from
such a violation, or to receive $500 in damages for each
such violation, whichever is greater, or
(C) both such actions.
If the court finds that the defendant willfully or knowingly vio-
lated this subsection or the regulations prescribed under this
subsection, the court may, in its discretion, increase the
amount of the award to an amount equal to not more than 3
times the amount available under subparagraph (B) of this
paragraph.
(4) CIVIL FORFEITURE.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—Any person that is determined by
the Commission, in accordance with paragraph (3) or (4) of
section 503(b), to have violated this subsection shall be lia-
ble to the United States for a forfeiture penalty pursuant
to section 503(b)(1). Paragraph (5) of section 503(b) shall
not apply in the case of a violation of this subsection. A
forfeiture penalty under this subparagraph shall be in ad-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
69 Sec. 227COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
dition to any other penalty provided for by this Act. The
amount of the forfeiture penalty determined under this
subparagraph shall be determined in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (A) through (F) of section 503(b)(2).
(B) VIOLATION WITH INTENT.—Any person that is de-
termined by the Commission, in accordance with para-
graph (3) or (4) of section 503(b), to have violated this sub-
section with the intent to cause such violation shall be lia-
ble to the United States for a forfeiture penalty pursuant
to section 503(b)(1). Paragraph (5) of section 503(b) shall
not apply in the case of a violation of this subsection. A
forfeiture penalty under this subparagraph shall be in ad-
dition to any other penalty provided for by this Act. The
amount of the forfeiture penalty determined under this
subparagraph shall be equal to an amount determined in
accordance with subparagraphs (A) through (F) of section
503(b)(2) plus an additional penalty not to exceed $10,000.
(C) RECOVERY.—Any forfeiture penalty determined
under subparagraph (A) or (B) shall be recoverable under
section 504(a).
(D) PROCEDURE.—No forfeiture liability shall be deter-
mined under subparagraph (A) or (B) against any person
unless such person receives the notice required by section
503(b)(3) or section 503(b)(4).
(E) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—Notwithstanding para-
graph (6) of section 503(b), no forfeiture penalty shall be
determined or imposed against any person—
(i) under subparagraph (A) if the violation charged
occurred more than 1 year prior to the date of
issuance of the required notice or notice of apparent li-
ability; or
(ii) under subparagraph (B) if the violation
charged occurred more than 4 years prior to the date
of issuance of the required notice or notice of apparent
liability.
(F) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Notwithstanding any
law to the contrary, the Commission may not determine or
impose a forfeiture penalty on a person under both sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B) based on the same conduct.
(c) PROTECTION OF SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY RIGHTS.—
(1) RULEMAKING PROCEEDING REQUIRED.—Within 120 days
after the date of enactment of this section, the Commission
shall initiate a rulemaking proceeding concerning the need to
protect residential telephone subscribers’ privacy rights to
avoid receiving telephone solicitations to which they object.
The proceeding shall—
(A) compare and evaluate alternative methods and
procedures (including the use of electronic databases, tele-
phone network technologies, special directory markings,
industry-based or company-specific ‘‘do not call’’ systems,
and any other alternatives, individually or in combination)
for their effectiveness in protecting such privacy rights,
and in terms of their cost and other advantages and dis-
advantages;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
70Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) evaluate the categories of public and private enti-
ties that would have the capacity to establish and admin-
ister such methods and procedures;
(C) consider whether different methods and procedures
may apply for local telephone solicitations, such as local
telephone solicitations of small businesses or holders of
second class mail permits;
(D) consider whether there is a need for additional
Commission authority to further restrict telephone solicita-
tions, including those calls exempted under subsection
(a)(3) of this section, and, if such a finding is made and
supported by the record, propose specific restrictions to the
Congress; and
(E) develop proposed regulations to implement the
methods and procedures that the Commission determines
are most effective and efficient to accomplish the purposes
of this section.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 9 months after the date
of enactment of this section, the Commission shall conclude the
rulemaking proceeding initiated under paragraph (1) and shall
prescribe regulations to implement methods and procedures for
protecting the privacy rights described in such paragraph in an
efficient, effective, and economic manner and without the impo-
sition of any additional charge to telephone subscribers.
(3) USE OF DATABASE PERMITTED.—The regulations re-
quired by paragraph (2) may require the establishment and op-
eration of a single national database to compile a list of tele-
phone numbers of residential subscribers who object to receiv-
ing telephone solicitations, and to make that compiled list and
parts thereof available for purchase. If the Commission deter-
mines to require such a database, such regulations shall—
(A) specify a method by which the Commission will se-
lect an entity to administer such database;
(B) require each common carrier providing telephone
exchange service, in accordance with regulations pre-
scribed by the Commission, to inform subscribers for tele-
phone exchange service of the opportunity to provide noti-
fication, in accordance with regulations established under
this paragraph, that such subscriber objects to receiving
telephone solicitations;
(C) specify the methods by which each telephone sub-
scriber shall be informed, by the common carrier that pro-
vides local exchange service to that subscriber, of (i) the
subscriber’s right to give or revoke a notification of an ob-
jection under subparagraph (A), and (ii) the methods by
which such right may be exercised by the subscriber;
(D) specify the methods by which such objections shall
be collected and added to the database;
(E) prohibit any residential subscriber from being
charged for giving or revoking such notification or for
being included in a database compiled under this section;
(F) prohibit any person from making or transmitting
a telephone solicitation to the telephone number of any
subscriber included in such database;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
71 Sec. 227COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(G) specify (i) the methods by which any person desir-
ing to make or transmit telephone solicitations will obtain
access to the database, by area code or local exchange pre-
fix, as required to avoid calling the telephone numbers of
subscribers included in such database; and (ii) the costs to
be recovered from such persons;
(H) specify the methods for recovering, from persons
accessing such database, the costs involved in identifying,
collecting, updating, disseminating, and selling, and other
activities relating to, the operations of the database that
are incurred by the entities carrying out those activities;
(I) specify the frequency with which such database will
be updated and specify the method by which such updat-
ing will take effect for purposes of compliance with the
regulations prescribed under this subsection;
(J) be designed to enable States to use the database
mechanism selected by the Commission for purposes of ad-
ministering or enforcing State law;
(K) prohibit the use of such database for any purpose
other than compliance with the requirements of this sec-
tion and any such State law and specify methods for pro-
tection of the privacy rights of persons whose numbers are
included in such database; and
(L) require each common carrier providing services to
any person for the purpose of making telephone solicita-
tions to notify such person of the requirements of this sec-
tion and the regulations thereunder.
(4) CONSIDERATIONS REQUIRED FOR USE OF DATABASE
METHOD.—If the Commission determines to require the data-
base mechanism described in paragraph (3), the Commission
shall— (A) in developing procedures for gaining access to the
database, consider the different needs of telemarketers
conducting business on a national, regional, State, or local
level;
(B) develop a fee schedule or price structure for re-
couping the cost of such database that recognizes such dif-
ferences and—
(i) reflect the relative costs of providing a national,
regional, State, or local list of phone numbers of sub-
scribers who object to receiving telephone solicitations;
(ii) reflect the relative costs of providing such lists
on paper or electronic media; and
(iii) not place an unreasonable financial burden on
small businesses; and
(C) consider (i) whether the needs of telemarketers op-
erating on a local basis could be met through special mark-
ings of area white pages directories, and (ii) if such direc-
tories are needed as an adjunct to database lists prepared
by area code and local exchange prefix.
(5) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—A person who has received
more than one telephone call within any 12-month period by
or on behalf of the same entity in violation of the regulations
prescribed under this subsection may, if otherwise permitted
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
72Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
by the laws or rules of court of a State bring in an appropriate
court of that State—
(A) an action based on a violation of the regulations
prescribed under this subsection to enjoin such violation,
(B) an action to recover for actual monetary loss from
such a violation, or to receive up to $500 in damages for
each such violation, whichever is greater, or
(C) both such actions.
It shall be an affirmative defense in any action brought under
this paragraph that the defendant has established and imple-
mented, with due care, reasonable practices and procedures to
effectively prevent telephone solicitations in violation of the
regulations prescribed under this subsection. If the court finds
that the defendant willfully or knowingly violated the regula-
tions prescribed under this subsection, the court may, in its
discretion, increase the amount of the award to an amount
equal to not more than 3 times the amount available under
subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
(6) RELATION TO SUBSECTION (b).—The provisions of this
subsection shall not be construed to permit a communication
prohibited by subsection (b).
(d) TECHNICAL AND PROCEDURAL STANDARDS.—
(1) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for any person with-
in the United States—
(A) to initiate any communication using a telephone
facsimile machine, or to make any telephone call using any
automatic telephone dialing system, that does not comply
with the technical and procedural standards prescribed
under this subsection, or to use any telephone facsimile
machine or automatic telephone dialing system in a man-
ner that does not comply with such standards; or
(B) to use a computer or other electronic device to
send any message via a telephone facsimile machine un-
less such person clearly marks, in a margin at the top or
bottom of each transmitted page of the message or on the
first page of the transmission, the date and time it is sent
and an identification of the business, other entity, or indi-
vidual sending the message and the telephone number of
the sending machine or of such business, other entity, or
individual.
(2) TELEPHONE FACSIMILE MACHINES.—The Commission
shall revise the regulations setting technical and procedural
standards for telephone facsimile machines to require that any
such machine which is manufactured after one year after the
date of enactment of this section clearly marks, in a margin at
the top or bottom of each transmitted page or on the first page
of each transmission, the date and time sent, an identification
of the business, other entity, or individual sending the mes-
sage, and the telephone number of the sending machine or of
such business, other entity, or individual.
(3) A RTIFICIAL OR PRERECORDED VOICE SYSTEMS.—The
Commission shall prescribe technical and procedural standards
for systems that are used to transmit any artificial or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
73 Sec. 227COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
prerecorded voice message via telephone. Such standards shall
require that—
(A) all artificial or prerecorded telephone messages (i)
shall, at the beginning of the message, state clearly the
identity of the business, individual, or other entity initi-
ating the call, and (ii) shall, during or after the message,
state clearly the telephone number or address of such busi-
ness, other entity, or individual; and
(B) any such system will automatically release the
called party’s line within 5 seconds of the time notification
is transmitted to the system that the called party has
hung up, to allow the called party’s line to be used to make
or receive other calls.
(e) PROHIBITION ON PROVISION OF MISLEADING OR INACCURATE
CALLER I DENTIFICATION INFORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—It shall be unlawful for any person with-
in the United States, or any person outside the United States
if the recipient is within the United States, in connection with
any voice service or text messaging service, to cause any caller
identification service to knowingly transmit misleading or inac-
curate caller identification information with the intent to de-
fraud, cause harm, or wrongfully obtain anything of value, un-
less such transmission is exempted pursuant to paragraph
(3)(B).
(2) PROTECTION FOR BLOCKING CALLER IDENTIFICATION IN-
FORMATION.—Nothing in this subsection may be construed to
prevent or restrict any person from blocking the capability of
any caller identification service to transmit caller identification
information.
(3) REGULATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall prescribe reg-
ulations to implement this subsection.
(B) CONTENT OF REGULATIONS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The regulations required under
subparagraph (A) shall include such exemptions from
the prohibition under paragraph (1) as the Commis-
sion determines is appropriate.
(ii) SPECIFIC EXEMPTION FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT
AGENCIES OR COURT ORDERS.—The regulations re-
quired under subparagraph (A) shall exempt from the
prohibition under paragraph (1) transmissions in con-
nection with—
(I) any authorized activity of a law enforce-
ment agency; or
(II) a court order that specifically authorizes
the use of caller identification manipulation.
øParagraph (4) of subsection (e) was repealed by section
402(i)(3) of division P of Public Law 115–141.¿
(5) PENALTIES.—
(A) CIVIL FORFEITURE.—
(i) I N GENERAL.—Any person that is determined
by the Commission, in accordance with paragraphs (3)
and (4) of section 503(b), to have violated this sub-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
74Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
section shall be liable to the United States for a for-
feiture penalty. A forfeiture penalty under this para-
graph shall be in addition to any other penalty pro-
vided for by this Act. The amount of the forfeiture
penalty determined under this paragraph shall not ex-
ceed $10,000 for each violation, or 3 times that
amount for each day of a continuing violation, except
that the amount assessed for any continuing violation
shall not exceed a total of $1,000,000 for any single act
or failure to act.
(ii) RECOVERY.—Any forfeiture penalty determined
under clause (i) shall be recoverable pursuant to sec-
tion 504(a). Paragraph (5) of section 503(b) shall not
apply in the case of a violation of this subsection.
(iii) PROCEDURE.—No forfeiture liability shall be
determined under clause (i) against any person unless
such person receives the notice required by section
503(b)(3) or section 503(b)(4).
(iv) 4-YEAR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—No for-
feiture penalty shall be determined or imposed against
any person under clause (i) if the violation charged oc-
curred more than 4 years prior to the date of issuance
of the required notice or notice or apparent liability.
(B) CRIMINAL FINE.—Any person who willfully and
knowingly violates this subsection shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $10,000 for each violation,
or 3 times that amount for each day of a continuing viola-
tion, in lieu of the fine provided by section 501 for such a
violation. This subparagraph does not supersede the provi-
sions of section 501 relating to imprisonment or the impo-
sition of a penalty of both fine and imprisonment.
(6) ENFORCEMENT BY STATES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The chief legal officer of a State, or
any other State officer authorized by law to bring actions
on behalf of the residents of a State, may bring a civil ac-
tion, as parens patriae, on behalf of the residents of that
State in an appropriate district court of the United States
to enforce this subsection or to impose the civil penalties
for violation of this subsection, whenever the chief legal of-
ficer or other State officer has reason to believe that the
interests of the residents of the State have been or are
being threatened or adversely affected by a violation of
this subsection or a regulation under this subsection.
(B) NOTICE.—The chief legal officer or other State offi-
cer shall serve written notice on the Commission of any
civil action under subparagraph (A) prior to initiating such
civil action. The notice shall include a copy of the com-
plaint to be filed to initiate such civil action, except that
if it is not feasible for the State to provide such prior no-
tice, the State shall provide such notice immediately upon
instituting such civil action.
(C) AUTHORITY TO INTERVENE.—Upon receiving the no-
tice required by subparagraph (B), the Commission shall
have the right—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
75 Sec. 227COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(i) to intervene in the action;
(ii) upon so intervening, to be heard on all matters
arising therein; and
(iii) to file petitions for appeal.
(D) CONSTRUCTION.—For purposes of bringing any
civil action under subparagraph (A), nothing in this para-
graph shall prevent the chief legal officer or other State of-
ficer from exercising the powers conferred on that officer
by the laws of such State to conduct investigations or to
administer oaths or affirmations or to compel the attend-
ance of witnesses or the production of documentary and
other evidence.
(E) VENUE; SERVICE OR PROCESS.—
(i) VENUE.—An action brought under subpara-
graph (A) shall be brought in a district court of the
United States that meets applicable requirements re-
lating to venue under section 1391 of title 28, United
States Code.
(ii) SERVICE OF PROCESS.—In an action brought
under subparagraph (A)—
(I) process may be served without regard to
the territorial limits of the district or of the State
in which the action is instituted; and
(II) a person who participated in an alleged
violation that is being litigated in the civil action
may be joined in the civil action without regard to
the residence of the person.
(7) EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.—This subsection does not pro-
hibit any lawfully authorized investigative, protective, or intel-
ligence activity of a law enforcement agency of the United
States, a State, or a political subdivision of a State, or of an
intelligence agency of the United States.
(8) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection:
(A) CALLER IDENTIFICATION INFORMATION.—The term
‘‘caller identification information’’ means information pro-
vided by a caller identification service regarding the tele-
phone number of, or other information regarding the origi-
nation of, a call made using a voice service or a text mes-
sage sent using a text messaging service.
(B) CALLER IDENTIFICATION SERVICE.—The term ‘‘caller
identification service’’ means any service or device de-
signed to provide the user of the service or device with the
telephone number of, or other information regarding the
origination of, a call made using a voice service or a text
message sent using a text messaging service. Such term
includes automatic number identification services.
(C) T EXT MESSAGE.—The term ‘‘text message’’—
(i) means a message consisting of text, images,
sounds, or other information that is transmitted to or
from a device that is identified as the receiving or
transmitting device by means of a 10-digit telephone
number or N11 service code;
(ii) includes a short message service (commonly
referred to as ‘‘SMS’’) message and a multimedia mes-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
76Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
sage service (commonly referred to as ‘‘MMS’’) mes-
sage; and
(iii) does not include—
(I) a real-time, two-way voice or video commu-
nication; or
(II) a message sent over an IP-enabled mes-
saging service to another user of the same mes-
saging service, except a message described in
clause (ii).
(D) TEXT MESSAGING SERVICE.—The term ‘‘text mes-
saging service’’ means a service that enables the trans-
mission or receipt of a text message, including a service
provided as part of or in connection with a voice service.
(E) VOICE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘voice service’’—
(i) means any service that is interconnected with
the public switched telephone network and that fur-
nishes voice communications to an end user using re-
sources from the North American Numbering Plan or
any successor to the North American Numbering Plan
adopted by the Commission under section 251(e)(1);
and (ii) includes transmissions from a telephone fac-
simile machine, computer, or other device to a tele-
phone facsimile machine.
(9) LIMITATION.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
this section, subsection (f) shall not apply to this subsection or
to the regulations under this subsection.
(f) EFFECT ON STATE LAW.—
(1) STATE LAW NOT PREEMPTED.—Except for the standards
prescribed under subsection (d) and subject to paragraph (2) of
this subsection, nothing in this section or in the regulations
prescribed under this section shall preempt any State law that
imposes more restrictive intrastate requirements or regulations
on, or which prohibits—
(A) the use of telephone facsimile machines or other
electronic devices to send unsolicited advertisements;
(B) the use of automatic telephone dialing systems;
(C) the use of artificial or prerecorded voice messages;
or (D) the making of telephone solicitations.
(2) STATE USE OF DATABASES.—If, pursuant to subsection
(c)(3), the Commission requires the establishment of a single
national database of telephone numbers of subscribers who ob-
ject to receiving telephone solicitations, a State or local author-
ity may not, in its regulation of telephone solicitations, require
the use of any database, list, or listing system that does not
include the part of such single national database that relates
to such State.
(g) ACTIONS BY STATES.—
(1) A UTHORITY OF STATES.—Whenever the attorney general
of a State, or an official or agency designated by a State, has
reason to believe that any person has engaged or is engaging
in a pattern or practice of telephone calls or other trans-
missions to residents of that State in violation of this section
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
77 Sec. 227COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
or the regulations prescribed under this section, the State may
bring a civil action on behalf of its residents to enjoin such
calls, an action to recover for actual monetary loss or receive
$500 in damages for each violation, or both such actions. If the
court finds the defendant willfully or knowingly violated such
regulations, the court may, in its discretion, increase the
amount of the award to an amount equal to not more than 3
times the amount available under the preceding sentence.
(2) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF FEDERAL COURTS.—The dis-
trict courts of the United States, the United States courts of
any territory, and the District Court of the United States for
the District of Columbia shall have exclusive jurisdiction over
all civil actions brought under this subsection. Upon proper ap-
plication, such courts shall also have jurisdiction to issue writs
of mandamus, or orders affording like relief, commanding the
defendant to comply with the provisions of this section or regu-
lations prescribed under this section, including the require-
ment that the defendant take such action as is necessary to re-
move the danger of such violation. Upon a proper showing, a
permanent or temporary injunction or restraining order shall
be granted without bond.
(3) RIGHTS OF COMMISSION.—The State shall serve prior
written notice of any such civil action upon the Commission
and provide the Commission with a copy of its complaint, ex-
cept in any case where such prior notice is not feasible, in
which case the State shall serve such notice immediately upon
instituting such action. The Commission shall have the right
(A) to intervene in the action, (B) upon so intervening, to be
heard on all matters arising therein, and (C) to file petitions
for appeal.
(4) VENUE; SERVICE OF PROCESS.—Any civil action brought
under this subsection in a district court of the United States
may be brought in the district wherein the defendant is found
or is an inhabitant or transacts business or wherein the viola-
tion occurred or is occurring, and process in such cases may be
served in any district in which the defendant is an inhabitant
or where the defendant may be found.
(5) INVESTIGATORY POWERS.—For purposes of bringing any
civil action under this subsection, nothing in this section shall
prevent the attorney general of a State, or an official or agency
designated by a State, from exercising the powers conferred on
the attorney general or such official by the laws of such State
to conduct investigations or to administer oaths or affirmations
or to compel the attendance of witnesses or the production of
documentary and other evidence.
(6) EFFECT ON STATE COURT PROCEEDINGS.—Nothing con-
tained in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit an au-
thorized State official from proceeding in State court on the
basis of an alleged violation of any general civil or criminal
statute of such State.
(7) LIMITATION.—Whenever the Commission has instituted
a civil action for violation of regulations prescribed under this
section, no State may, during the pendency of such action insti-
tuted by the Commission, subsequently institute a civil action
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
78Sec. 227 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
against any defendant named in the Commission’s complaint
for any violation as alleged in the Commission’s complaint.
(8) DEFINITION.—As used in this subsection, the term ‘‘at-
torney general’’ means the chief legal officer of a State.
(h) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS ON ROBOCALLS AND TRANS-
MISSION OF MISLEADING OR INACCURATE CALLER IDENTIFICATION
I NFORMATION.—
(1) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of the enactment of this subsection, and annually there-
after, the Commission, after consultation with the Federal
Trade Commission, shall submit to Congress a report regard-
ing enforcement by the Commission of subsections (b), (c), (d),
and (e) during the preceding calendar year.
(2) M ATTERS FOR INCLUSION.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) shall include the following:
(A) The number of complaints received by the Com-
mission during each of the preceding 5 calendar years, for
each of the following categories:
(i) Complaints alleging that a consumer received a
call in violation of subsection (b) or (c).
(ii) Complaints alleging that a consumer received
a call in violation of the standards prescribed under
subsection (d).
(iii) Complaints alleging that a consumer received
a call in connection with which misleading or inac-
curate caller identification information was trans-
mitted in violation of subsection (e).
(B) The number of citations issued by the Commission
pursuant to section 503(b) during the preceding calendar
year to enforce subsection (d), and details of each such ci-
tation.
(C) The number of notices of apparent liability issued
by the Commission pursuant to section 503(b) during the
preceding calendar year to enforce subsections (b), (c), (d),
and (e), and details of each such notice including any pro-
posed forfeiture amount.
(D) The number of final orders imposing forfeiture
penalties issued pursuant to section 503(b) during the pre-
ceding calendar year to enforce such subsections, and de-
tails of each such order including the forfeiture imposed.
(E) The amount of forfeiture penalties or criminal
fines collected, during the preceding calendar year, by the
Commission or the Attorney General for violations of such
subsections, and details of each case in which such a for-
feiture penalty or criminal fine was collected.
(F) Proposals for reducing the number of calls made in
violation of such subsections.
(G) An analysis of the contribution by providers of
interconnected VoIP service and non-interconnected VoIP
service that discount high-volume, unlawful, short-dura-
tion calls to the total number of calls made in violation of
such subsections, and recommendations on how to address
such contribution in order to decrease the total number of
calls made in violation of such subsections.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
79 Sec. 228COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
8 Subsections (i) and (j) of section 227 were added by subsections (a) and (b) of section 10, re-
spectively, of Public Law 116–105. Subsection (d) of such section 10 (relating to transitional rule
regarding definition of text message) provides: ‘‘Paragraph (2) of subsection (i) of section 227 of
the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227), as added by subsection (a) of this section, and
paragraph (2) of subsection (j) of such section 227, as added by subsection (b) of this section,
shall apply before the effective date of the amendment made to subsection (e)(8) of such section
227 by subparagraph (C) of section 503(a)(2) of division P of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act, 2018 (Public Law 115–141) as if such amendment was already in effect.’’.
(3) NO ADDITIONAL REPORTING REQUIRED.—The Commis-
sion shall prepare the report required by paragraph (1) without
requiring the provision of additional information from pro-
viders of telecommunications service or voice service (as de-
fined in section 4(a) of the Pallone-Thune TRACED Act).
(i) INFORMATION SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 18 months after the date
of the enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall pre-
scribe regulations to establish a process that streamlines the
ways in which a private entity may voluntarily share with the
Commission information relating to—
(A) a call made or a text message sent in violation of
subsection (b); or
(B) a call or text message for which misleading or in-
accurate caller identification information was caused to be
transmitted in violation of subsection (e).
(2) TEXT MESSAGE DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘text message’’ has the meaning given such term in subsection
(e)(8) 8 .
(j) ROBOCALL BLOCKING SERVICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after the date of
the enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall take a
final agency action to ensure the robocall blocking services pro-
vided on an opt-out or opt-in basis pursuant to the Declaratory
Ruling of the Commission in the matter of Advanced Methods
to Target and Eliminate Unlawful Robocalls (CG Docket No.
17–59; FCC 19–51; adopted on June 6, 2019)—
(A) are provided with transparency and effective re-
dress options for both—
(i) consumers; and
(ii) callers; and
(B) are provided with no additional line item charge to
consumers and no additional charge to callers for resolving
complaints related to erroneously blocked calls; and
(C) make all reasonable efforts to avoid blocking emer-
gency public safety calls.
(2) TEXT MESSAGE DEFINED.—In this subsection, the term
‘‘text message’’ has the meaning given such term in subsection
(e)(8) 8 .
SEC. 228. ø47 U.S.C. 228¿ REGULATION OF CARRIER OFFERING OF PAY-
PER-CALL SERVICES.
(a) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this section—
(1) to put into effect a system of national regulation and
review that will oversee interstate pay-per-call services; and
(2) to recognize the Commission’s authority to prescribe
regulations and enforcement procedures and conduct oversight
to afford reasonable protection to consumers of pay-per-call
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
80Sec. 228 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
services and to assure that violations of Federal law do not
occur.
(b) GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR REGULATIONS.—The Commission
by regulation shall, within 270 days after the date of enactment of
this section, establish a system for oversight and regulation of pay-
per-call services in order to provide for the protection of consumers
in accordance with this Act and other applicable Federal statutes
and regulations. The Commission’s final rules shall—
(1) include measures that provide a consumer of pay-per-
call services with adequate and clear descriptions of the rights
of the caller;
(2) define the obligations of common carriers with respect
to the provision of pay-per-call services;
(3) include requirements on such carriers to protect
against abusive practices by providers of pay-per-call services;
(4) identify procedures by which common carriers and pro-
viders of pay-per-call services may take affirmative steps to
protect against nonpayment of legitimate charges; and
(5) require that any service described in subparagraphs (A)
and (B) of subsection (i)(1) be offered only through the use of
certain telephone number prefixes and area codes.
(c) COMMON CARRIER OBLIGATIONS.—Within 270 days after the
date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall, by regula-
tion, establish the following requirements for common carriers:
(1) CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS TO COMPLY.—Any common
carrier assigning to a provider of pay-per-call services a tele-
phone number with a prefix or area code designated by the
Commission in accordance with subsection (b)(5) shall require
by contract or tariff that such provider comply with the provi-
sions of titles II and III of the Telephone Disclosure and Dis-
pute Resolution Act and the regulations prescribed by the Fed-
eral Trade Commission pursuant to those titles.
(2) INFORMATION AVAILABILITY.—A common carrier that by
tariff or contract assigns a telephone number with a prefix or
area code designated by the Commission in accordance with
subsection (b)(5) to a provider of a pay-per-call service shall
make readily available on request to Federal and State agen-
cies and other interested persons—
(A) a list of the telephone numbers for each of the pay-
per-call services it carries;
(B) a short description of each such service;
(C) a statement of the total cost or the cost per minute
and any other fees for each such service;
(D) a statement of the pay-per-call service’s name,
business address, and business telephone; and
(E) such other information as the Commission con-
siders necessary for the enforcement of this section and
other applicable Federal statutes and regulations.
(3) COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES.—A common carrier that by
contract or tariff assigns a telephone number with a prefix or
area code designated by the Commission in accordance with
subsection (b)(5) to a provider of pay-per-call services shall ter-
minate, in accordance with procedures specified in such regula-
tions, the offering of a pay-per-call service of a provider if the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
81 Sec. 228COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
carrier knows or reasonably should know that such service is
not provided in compliance with title II or III of the Telephone
Disclosure and Dispute Resolution Act or the regulations pre-
scribed by the Federal Trade Commission pursuant to such ti-
tles. (4) SUBSCRIBER DISCONNECTION PROHIBITED.—A common
carrier shall not disconnect or interrupt a subscriber’s local ex-
change telephone service or long distance telephone service be-
cause of nonpayment of charges for any pay-per-call service.
(5) BLOCKING AND PRESUBSCRIPTION.—A common carrier
that provides local exchange service shall—
(A) offer telephone subscribers (where technically fea-
sible) the option of blocking access from their telephone
number to all, or to certain specific, prefixes or area codes
used by pay-per-call services, which option—
(i) shall be offered at no charge (I) to all sub-
scribers for a period of 60 days after the issuance of
the regulations under subsection (b), and (II) to any
subscriber who subscribes to a new telephone number
until 60 days after the time the new telephone number
is effective; and
(ii) shall otherwise be offered at a reasonable fee;
and
(B) offer telephone subscribers (where the Commission
determines it is technically and economically feasible), in
combination with the blocking option described under sub-
paragraph (A), the option of presubscribing to or blocking
only specific pay-per-call services for a reasonable one-time
charge.
The regulations prescribed under subparagraph (A)(i) of this
paragraph may permit the costs of such blocking to be recov-
ered by contract or tariff, but such costs may not be recovered
from local or long-distance ratepayers. Nothing in this sub-
section precludes a common carrier from filing its rates and
regulations regarding blocking and presubscription in its inter-
state tariffs.
(6) V ERIFICATION OF CHARITABLE STATUS.—A common car-
rier that assigns by contract or tariff a telephone number with
a prefix or area code designated by the Commission in accord-
ance with subsection (b)(5) to a provider of pay-per-call services
that the carrier knows or reasonably should know is engaged
in soliciting charitable contributions shall obtain from such
provider proof of the tax exempt status of any person or orga-
nization for which contributions are solicited.
(7) BILLING FOR 800 CALLS.—A common carrier shall pro-
hibit by tariff or contract the use of any 800 telephone number,
or other telephone number advertised or widely understood to
be toll free, in a manner that would result in—
(A) the calling party being assessed, by virtue of com-
pleting the call, a charge for the call;
(B) the calling party being connected to a pay-per-call
service;
(C) the calling party being charged for information
conveyed during the call unless—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
82Sec. 228 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(i) the calling party has a written agreement (in-
cluding an agreement transmitted through electronic
medium) that meets the requirements of paragraph
(8); or
(ii) the calling party is charged for the information
in accordance with paragraph (9);
(D) the calling party being called back collect for the
provision of audio information services or simultaneous
voice conversation services; or
(E) the calling party being assessed, by virtue of being
asked to connect or otherwise transfer to a pay-per-call
service, a charge for the call.
(8) SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENTS FOR BILLING FOR INFORMA-
TION PROVIDED VIA TOLL-FREE CALLS.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—For purposes of paragraph (7)(C)(i),
a written subscription does not meet the requirements of
this paragraph unless the agreement specifies the material
terms and conditions under which the information is of-
fered and includes—
(i) the rate at which charges are assessed for the
information;
(ii) the information provider’s name;
(iii) the information provider’s business address;
(iv) the information provider’s regular business
telephone number;
(v) the information provider’s agreement to notify
the subscriber at least one billing cycle in advance of
all future changes in the rates charged for the infor-
mation; and
(vi) the subscriber’s choice of payment method,
which may be by direct remit, debit, prepaid account,
phone bill, or credit or calling card.
(B) BILLING ARRANGEMENTS.—If a subscriber elects,
pursuant to subparagraph (A)(vi), to pay by means of a
phone bill—
(i) the agreement shall clearly explain that the
subscriber will be assessed for calls made to the infor-
mation service from the subscriber’s phone line;
(ii) the phone bill shall include, in prominent type,
the following disclaimer:
‘‘Common carriers may not disconnect local or
long distance telephone service for failure to pay
disputed charges for information services.’’; and
(iii) the phone bill shall clearly list the 800 num-
ber dialed.
(C) USE OF PINS TO PREVENT UNAUTHORIZED USE.—A
written agreement does not meet the requirements of this
paragraph unless it—
(i) includes a unique personal identification num-
ber or other subscriber-specific identifier and requires
a subscriber to use this number or identifier to obtain
access to the information provided and includes in-
structions on its use; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
83 Sec. 228COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) assures that any charges for services accessed
by use of the subscriber’s personal identification num-
ber or subscriber-specific identifier be assessed to sub-
scriber’s source of payment elected pursuant to sub-
paragraph (A)(vi).
(D) EXCEPTIONS.—Notwithstanding paragraph (7)(C),
a written agreement that meets the requirements of this
paragraph is not required—
(i) for calls utilizing telecommunications devices
for the deaf;
(ii) for directory services provided by a common
carrier or its affiliate or by a local exchange carrier or
its affiliate; or
(iii) for any purchase of goods or of services that
are not information services.
(E) TERMINATION OF SERVICE.—On receipt by a com-
mon carrier of a complaint by any person that an informa-
tion provider is in violation of the provisions of this sec-
tion, a carrier shall—
(i) promptly investigate the complaint; and
(ii) if the carrier reasonably determines that the
complaint is valid, it may terminate the provision of
service to an information provider unless the provider
supplies evidence of a written agreement that meets
the requirements of this section.
(F) TREATMENT OF REMEDIES.—The remedies provided
in this paragraph are in addition to any other remedies
that are available under title V of this Act.
(9) CHARGES BY CREDIT, PREPAID, DEBIT, CHARGE, OR CALL-
ING CARD IN ABSENCE OF AGREEMENT.—For purposes of para-
graph (7)(C)(ii), a calling party is not charged in accordance
with this paragraph unless the calling party is charged by
means of a credit, prepaid, debit, charge, or calling card and
the information service provider includes in response to each
call an introductory disclosure message that—
(A) clearly states that there is a charge for the call;
(B) clearly states the service’s total cost per minute
and any other fees for the service or for any service to
which the caller may be transferred;
(C) explains that the charges must be billed on either
a credit, prepaid, debit, charge, or calling card;
(D) asks the caller for the card number;
(E) clearly states that charges for the call begin at the
end of the introductory message; and
(F) clearly states that the caller can hang up at or be-
fore the end of the introductory message without incurring
any charge whatsoever.
(10) BYPASS OF INTRODUCTORY DISCLOSURE MESSAGE.—The
requirements of paragraph (9) shall not apply to calls from re-
peat callers using a bypass mechanism to avoid listening to the
introductory message: Provided, That information providers
shall disable such a bypass mechanism after the institution of
any price increase and for a period of time determined to be
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
84Sec. 228 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
sufficient by the Federal Trade Commission to give callers ade-
quate and sufficient notice of a price increase.
(11) DEFINITION OF CALLING CARD.—As used in this sub-
section, the term ‘‘calling card’’ means an identifying number
or code unique to the individual, that is issued to the indi-
vidual by a common carrier and enables the individual to be
charged by means of a phone bill for charges incurred inde-
pendent of where the call originates.
(d) BILLING AND COLLECTION PRACTICES.—The regulations re-
quired by this section shall require that any common carrier that
by tariff or contract assigns a telephone number with a prefix or
area code designated by the Commission in accordance with sub-
section (b)(5) to a provider of a pay-per-call service and that offers
billing and collection services to such provider—
(1) ensure that a subscriber is not billed—
(A) for pay-per-call services that such carrier knows or
reasonably should know was provided in violation of the
regulations issued pursuant to title II of the Telephone
Disclosure and Dispute Resolution Act; or
(B) under such other circumstances as the Commission
determines necessary in order to protect subscribers from
abusive practices;
(2) establish a local or a toll-free telephone number to an-
swer questions and provide information on subscribers’ rights
and obligations with regard to their use of pay-per-call services
and to provide to callers the name and mailing address of any
provider of pay-per-call services offered by the common carrier;
(3) within 60 days after the issuance of final regulations
pursuant to subsection (b), provide, either directly or through
contract with any local exchange carrier that provides billing
or collection services to the common carrier, to all of such com-
mon carrier’s telephone subscribers, to all new subscribers, and
to all subscribers requesting service at a new location, a disclo-
sure statement that sets forth all rights and obligations of the
subscriber and the carrier with respect to the use and payment
for pay-per-call services, including the right of a subscriber not
to be billed and the applicable blocking option; and
(4) in any billing to telephone subscribers that includes
charges for any pay-per-call service—
(A) display any charges for pay-per-call services in a
part of the subscriber’s bill that is identified as not being
related to local and long distance telephone charges;
(B) for each charge so displayed, specify, at a min-
imum, the type of service, the amount of the charge, and
the date, time, and duration of the call; and
(C) identify the toll-free number established pursuant
to paragraph (2).
(e) LIABILITY.—
(1) COMMON CARRIERS NOT LIABLE FOR TRANSMISSION OR
BILLING.—No common carrier shall be liable for a criminal or
civil sanction or penalty solely because the carrier provided
transmission or billing and collection for a pay-per-call service
unless the carrier knew or reasonably should have known that
such service was provided in violation of a provision of, or reg-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
85 Sec. 228COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ulation prescribed pursuant to, title II or III of the Telephone
Disclosure and Dispute Resolution Act or any other Federal
law. This paragraph shall not prevent the Commission from
imposing a sanction or penalty on a common carrier for a viola-
tion by that carrier of a regulation prescribed under this sec-
tion.(2) CIVIL LIABILITY.—No cause of action may be brought in
any court or administrative agency against any common car-
rier or any of its affiliates on account of any act of the carrier
or affiliate to terminate any pay-per-call service in order to
comply with the regulations prescribed under this section, title
II or III of the Telephone Disclosure and Dispute Resolution
Act, or any other Federal law unless the complainant dem-
onstrates that the carrier or affiliate did not act in good faith.
(f) SPECIAL PROVISIONS.—
(1) CONSUMER REFUND REQUIREMENTS.—The regulations
required by subsection (d) shall establish procedures, con-
sistent with the provisions of titles II and III of the Telephone
Disclosure and Dispute Resolution Act, to ensure that carriers
and other parties providing billing and collection services with
respect to pay-per-call services provide appropriate refunds to
subscribers who have been billed for pay-per-call services pur-
suant to programs that have been found to have violated this
section or such regulations, any provision of, or regulations
prescribed pursuant to, title II or III of the Telephone Disclo-
sure and Dispute Resolution Act, or any other Federal law.
(2) RECOVERY OF COSTS.—The regulations prescribed by
the Commission under this section shall permit a common car-
rier to recover its cost of complying with such regulations from
providers of pay-per-call services, but shall not permit such
costs to be recovered from local or long distance ratepayers.
(3) RECOMMENDATIONS ON DATA PAY-PER-CALL.—The Com-
mission, within one year after the date of enactment of this
section, shall submit to the Congress the Commission’s rec-
ommendations with respect to the extension of regulations
under this section to persons that provide, for a per-call
charge, data services that are not pay-per-call services.
(g) EFFECT ON OTHER LAW.—
(1) NO PREEMPTION OF ELECTION LAW.—Nothing in this
section shall relieve any provider of pay-per-call services, com-
mon carrier, local exchange carrier, or any other person from
the obligation to comply with Federal, State, and local election
statutes and regulations.
(2) CONSUMER PROTECTION LAWS.—Nothing in this section
shall relieve any provider of pay-per-call services, common car-
rier, local exchange carrier, or any other person from the obli-
gation to comply with any Federal, State, or local statute or
regulation relating to consumer protection or unfair trade.
(3) GAMBLING LAWS.—Nothing in this section shall pre-
clude any State from enforcing its statutes and regulations
with regard to lotteries, wagering, betting, and other gambling
activities.
(4) STATE AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this section shall pre-
clude any State from enacting and enforcing additional and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
86Sec. 229 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
complementary oversight and regulatory systems or proce-
dures, or both, so long as such systems and procedures govern
intrastate services and do not significantly impede the enforce-
ment of this section or other Federal statutes.
(5) ENFORCEMENT OF EXISTING REGULATIONS.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to prohibit the Commission from
enforcing regulations prescribed prior to the date of enactment
of this section in fulfilling the requirements of this section to
the extent that such regulations are consistent with the provi-
sions of this section.
(h) EFFECT ON DIAL-A-PORN PROHIBITIONS.—Nothing in this
section shall affect the provisions of section 223 of this Act.
(i) DEFINITION OF PAY-PER-CALL SERVICES.—For purposes of
this section—
(1) The term ‘‘pay-per-call services’’ means any service—
(A) in which any person provides or purports to pro-
vide—
(i) audio information or audio entertainment pro-
duced or packaged by such person;
(ii) access to simultaneous voice conversation serv-
ices; or
(iii) any service, including the provision of a prod-
uct, the charges for which are assessed on the basis of
the completion of the call;
(B) for which the caller pays a per-call or per-time-in-
terval charge that is greater than, or in addition to, the
charge for transmission of the call; and
(C) which is accessed through use of a 900 telephone
number or other prefix or area code designated by the
Commission in accordance with subsection (b)(5).
(2) Such term does not include directory services provided
by a common carrier or its affiliate or by a local exchange car-
rier or its affiliate, or any service for which users are assessed
charges only after entering into a presubscription or com-
parable arrangement with the provider of such service.
SEC. 229. ø47 U.S.C. 229¿ COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR LAW EN-
FORCEMENT ACT COMPLIANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall prescribe such rules
as are necessary to implement the requirements of the Communica-
tions Assistance for Law Enforcement Act.
(b) SYSTEMS SECURITY AND INTEGRITY.—The rules prescribed
pursuant to subsection (a) shall include rules to implement section
105 of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act
that require common carriers—
(1) to establish appropriate policies and procedures for the
supervision and control of its officers and employees—
(A) to require appropriate authorization to activate
interception of communications or access to call-identifying
information; and
(B) to prevent any such interception or access without
such authorization;
(2) to maintain secure and accurate records of any inter-
ception or access with or without such authorization; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
87 Sec. 230COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(3) to submit to the Commission the policies and proce-
dures adopted to comply with the requirements established
under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(c) COMMISSION REVIEW OF COMPLIANCE.—The Commission
shall review the policies and procedures submitted under sub-
section (b)(3) and shall order a common carrier to modify any such
policy or procedure that the Commission determines does not com-
ply with Commission regulations. The Commission shall conduct
such investigations as may be necessary to insure compliance by
common carriers with the requirements of the regulations pre-
scribed under this section.
(d) PENALTIES.—For purposes of this Act, a violation by an offi-
cer or employee of any policy or procedure adopted by a common
carrier pursuant to subsection (b), or of a rule prescribed by the
Commission pursuant to subsection (a), shall be considered to be a
violation by the carrier of a rule prescribed by the Commission pur-
suant to this Act.
(e) COST RECOVERY FOR COMMUNICATIONS ASSISTANCE FOR
LAW ENFORCEMENT ACT COMPLIANCE.—
(1) P ETITIONS AUTHORIZED.—A common carrier may peti-
tion the Commission to adjust charges, practices, classifica-
tions, and regulations to recover costs expended for making
modifications to equipment, facilities, or services pursuant to
the requirements of section 103 of the Communications Assist-
ance for Law Enforcement Act.
(2) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—The Commission may grant,
with or without modification, a petition under paragraph (1) if
the Commission determines that such costs are reasonable and
that permitting recovery is consistent with the public interest.
The Commission may, consistent with maintaining just and
reasonable charges, practices, classifications, and regulations
in connection with the provision of interstate or foreign com-
munication by wire or radio by a common carrier, allow car-
riers to adjust such charges, practices, classifications, and reg-
ulations in order to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(3) JOINT BOARD.—The Commission shall convene a Fed-
eral-State joint board to recommend appropriate changes to
part 36 of the Commission’s rules with respect to recovery of
costs pursuant to charges, practices, classifications, and regula-
tions under the jurisdiction of the Commission.
SEC. 230. ø47 U.S.C. 230¿ PROTECTION FOR PRIVATE BLOCKING AND
SCREENING OF OFFENSIVE MATERIAL.
(a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds the following:
(1) The rapidly developing array of Internet and other
interactive computer services available to individual Americans
represent an extraordinary advance in the availability of edu-
cational and informational resources to our citizens.
(2) These services offer users a great degree of control over
the information that they receive, as well as the potential for
even greater control in the future as technology develops.
(3) The Internet and other interactive computer services
offer a forum for a true diversity of political discourse, unique
opportunities for cultural development, and myriad avenues for
intellectual activity.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
88Sec. 230 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
9 So in law. Probably should be subparagraph (A).
(4) The Internet and other interactive computer services
have flourished, to the benefit of all Americans, with a min-
imum of government regulation.
(5) Increasingly Americans are relying on interactive
media for a variety of political, educational, cultural, and en-
tertainment services.
(b) POLICY.—It is the policy of the United States—
(1) to promote the continued development of the Internet
and other interactive computer services and other interactive
media;
(2) to preserve the vibrant and competitive free market
that presently exists for the Internet and other interactive
computer services, unfettered by Federal or State regulation;
(3) to encourage the development of technologies which
maximize user control over what information is received by in-
dividuals, families, and schools who use the Internet and other
interactive computer services;
(4) to remove disincentives for the development and utili-
zation of blocking and filtering technologies that empower par-
ents to restrict their children’s access to objectionable or inap-
propriate online material; and
(5) to ensure vigorous enforcement of Federal criminal
laws to deter and punish trafficking in obscenity, stalking, and
harassment by means of computer.
(c) PROTECTION FOR ‘‘GOOD SAMARITAN’’ BLOCKING AND
SCREENING OF OFFENSIVE MATERIAL.—
(1) TREATMENT OF PUBLISHER OR SPEAKER.—No provider or
user of an interactive computer service shall be treated as the
publisher or speaker of any information provided by another
information content provider.
(2) CIVIL LIABILITY.—No provider or user of an interactive
computer service shall be held liable on account of—
(A) any action voluntarily taken in good faith to re-
strict access to or availability of material that the provider
or user considers to be obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, ex-
cessively violent, harassing, or otherwise objectionable,
whether or not such material is constitutionally protected;
or (B) any action taken to enable or make available to in-
formation content providers or others the technical means
to restrict access to material described in paragraph (1) 9 .
(d) OBLIGATIONS OF INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE.—A pro-
vider of interactive computer service shall, at the time of entering
an agreement with a customer for the provision of interactive com-
puter service and in a manner deemed appropriate by the provider,
notify such customer that parental control protections (such as
computer hardware, software, or filtering services) are commer-
cially available that may assist the customer in limiting access to
material that is harmful to minors. Such notice shall identify, or
provide the customer with access to information identifying, cur-
rent providers of such protections.
(e) EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
89 Sec. 230COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) NO EFFECT ON CRIMINAL LAW.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed to impair the enforcement of section 223 or
231 of this Act, chapter 71 (relating to obscenity) or 110 (relat-
ing to sexual exploitation of children) of title 18, United States
Code, or any other Federal criminal statute.
(2) NO EFFECT ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW.—Nothing
in this section shall be construed to limit or expand any law
pertaining to intellectual property.
(3) STATE LAW.—Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prevent any State from enforcing any State law that is con-
sistent with this section. No cause of action may be brought
and no liability may be imposed under any State or local law
that is inconsistent with this section.
(4) NO EFFECT ON COMMUNICATIONS PRIVACY LAW.—Noth-
ing in this section shall be construed to limit the application
of the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 or any
of the amendments made by such Act, or any similar State
law.
(5) NO EFFECT ON SEX TRAFFICKING LAW.—Nothing in this
section (other than subsection (c)(2)(A)) shall be construed to
impair or limit—
(A) any claim in a civil action brought under section
1595 of title 18, United States Code, if the conduct under-
lying the claim constitutes a violation of section 1591 of
that title;
(B) any charge in a criminal prosecution brought
under State law if the conduct underlying the charge
would constitute a violation of section 1591 of title 18,
United States Code; or
(C) any charge in a criminal prosecution brought
under State law if the conduct underlying the charge
would constitute a violation of section 2421A of title 18,
United States Code, and promotion or facilitation of pros-
titution is illegal in the jurisdiction where the defendant’s
promotion or facilitation of prostitution was targeted.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) INTERNET.—The term ‘‘Internet’’ means the inter-
national computer network of both Federal and non-Federal
interoperable packet switched data networks.
(2) INTERACTIVE COMPUTER SERVICE.—The term ‘‘inter-
active computer service’’ means any information service, sys-
tem, or access software provider that provides or enables com-
puter access by multiple users to a computer server, including
specifically a service or system that provides access to the
Internet and such systems operated or services offered by li-
braries or educational institutions.
(3) I NFORMATION CONTENT PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘informa-
tion content provider’’ means any person or entity that is re-
sponsible, in whole or in part, for the creation or development
of information provided through the Internet or any other
interactive computer service.
(4) A CCESS SOFTWARE PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘access soft-
ware provider’’ means a provider of software (including client
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
90Sec. 231 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
10 Section 231 of the Communications Act of 1934 was added by section 1403 of the Child On-
line Protection Act (P.L. 105–277; Oct. 21, 1998; 112 Stat. 2681–736). Sections 1402 and 1405
of that Act contained the following related provisions:
SEC. 1402. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
The Congress finds that—
(1) while custody, care, and nurture of the child resides first with the parent, the wide-
spread availability of the Internet presents opportunities for minors to access materials
through the World Wide Web in a manner that can frustrate parental supervision or con-
trol;
(2) the protection of the physical and psychological well-being of minors by shielding them
from materials that are harmful to them is a compelling governmental interest;
(3) to date, while the industry has developed innovative ways to help parents and edu-
cators restrict material that is harmful to minors through parental control protections and
self-regulation, such efforts have not provided a national solution to the problem of minors
accessing harmful material on the World Wide Web;
(4) a prohibition on the distribution of material harmful to minors, combined with legiti-
mate defenses, is currently the most effective and least restrictive means by which to satisfy
the compelling government interest; and
(5) notwithstanding the existence of protections that limit the distribution over the World
Wide Web of material that is harmful to minors, parents, educators, and industry must con-
tinue efforts to find ways to protect children from being exposed to harmful material found
on the Internet.
SEC. 1405. STUDY BY COMMISSION ON ONLINE CHILD PROTECTION.
(a) E STABLISHMENT.—There is hereby established a temporary Commission to be known as the
Commission on Online Child Protection (in this section referred to as the ‘‘Commission’’) for the
purpose of conducting a study under this section regarding methods to help reduce access by
minors to material that is harmful to minors on the Internet.
(b) M EMBERSHIP.—The Commission shall be composed of 19 members, as follows:
(1) I NDUSTRY MEMBERS.—The Commission shall include 16 members who shall consist of
representatives of—
(A) providers of Internet filtering or blocking services or software;
(B) Internet access services;
(C) labeling or ratings services;
(D) Internet portal or search services;
(E) domain name registration services;
(F) academic experts; and
(G) providers that make content available over the Internet.
Of the members of the Commission by reason of this paragraph, an equal number shall
be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and by the Majority Leader
of the Senate. Members of the Commission appointed on or before October 31, 1999, shall
remain members.
(2) E X OFFICIO MEMBERS.—The Commission shall include the following officials:
(A) The Assistant Secretary (or the Assistant Secretary’s designee).
(B) The Attorney General (or the Attorney General’s designee).
(C) The Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission (or the Chairman’s designee).
(3) PROHIBITION OF PAY.—Members of the Commission shall not receive any pay by reason
of their membership on the Commission.
(c) F IRST M EETING.—The Commission shall hold its first meeting not later than March 31,
2000.
(d) C HAIRPERSON.—The chairperson of the Commission shall be elected by a vote of a majority
of the members, which shall take place not later than 30 days after the first meeting of the
Commission.
(e) S TUDY.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—The Commission shall conduct a study to identify technological or other
methods that—
(A) will help reduce access by minors to material that is harmful to minors on the
Internet; and
or server software), or enabling tools that do any one or more
of the following:
(A) filter, screen, allow, or disallow content;
(B) pick, choose, analyze, or digest content; or
(C) transmit, receive, display, forward, cache, search,
subset, organize, reorganize, or translate content.
SEC. 231. ø47 U.S.C. 231¿ RESTRICTION OF ACCESS BY MINORS TO MA-
TERIALS COMMERCIALLY DISTRIBUTED BY MEANS OF
WORLD WIDE WEB THAT ARE HARMFUL TO MINORS. 10
(a) REQUIREMENT TO RESTRICT ACCESS.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
91 Sec. 231COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) may meet the requirements for use as affirmative defenses for purposes of section
231(c) of the Communications Act of 1934 (as added by this title).
Any methods so identified shall be used as the basis for making legislative recommenda-
tions to the Congress under subsection (d)(3).
(2) S PECIFIC METHODS.—In carrying out the study, the Commission shall identify and ana-
lyze various technological tools and methods for protecting minors from material that is
harmful to minors, which shall include (without limitation)—
(A) a common resource for parents to use to help protect minors (such as a ‘‘one-click-
away’’ resource);
(B) filtering or blocking software or services;
(C) labeling or rating systems;
(D) age verification systems;
(E) the establishment of a domain name for posting of any material that is harmful
to minors; and
(F) any other existing or proposed technologies or methods for reducing access by mi-
nors to such material.
(3) A NALYSIS.—In analyzing technologies and other methods identified pursuant to para-
graph (2), the Commission shall examine—
(A) the cost of such technologies and methods;
(B) the effects of such technologies and methods on law enforcement entities;
(C) the effects of such technologies and methods on privacy;
(D) the extent to which material that is harmful to minors is globally distributed and
the effect of such technologies and methods on such distribution;
(E) the accessibility of such technologies and methods to parents; and
(F) such other factors and issues as the Commission considers relevant and appro-
priate.
(f) R EPORT.—Not later than 2 years after the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall sub-
mit a report to the Congress containing the results of the study under this section, which shall
include—
(1) a description of the technologies and methods identified by the study and the results
of the analysis of each such technology and method;
(2) the conclusions and recommendations of the Commission regarding each such tech-
nology or method;
(3) recommendations for legislative or administrative actions to implement the conclusions
of the committee; and
(4) a description of the technologies or methods identified by the study that may meet
the requirements for use as affirmative defenses for purposes of section 231(c) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934 (as added by this title).
(g) R ULES OF THE C OMMISSION.—
(1) Q UORUM.—Nine members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for conducting
the business of the Commission.
(2) M EETINGS.—Any meetings held by the Commission shall be duly noticed at least 14
days in advance and shall be open to the public.
(3) O PPORTUNITIES TO TESTIFY.—The Commission shall provide opportunities for rep-
resentatives of the general public to testify.
(4) A DDITIONAL RULES.—The Commission may adopt other rules as necessary to carry out
this section.’’.
(h) G IFTS, BEQUESTS, AND D EVISES.—The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts,
bequests, or devises of services or property, both real (including the use of office space) and per-
sonal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the Commission. Gifts or grants not
used at the termination of the Commission shall be returned to the donor or grantee.
(l)* TERMINATION.—The Commission shall terminate 30 days after the submission of the re-
port under subsection (d) or November 30, 2000, whichever occurs earlier.
(m)* I NAPPLICABILITY OF F EDERAL A DVISORY C OMMITTEE A CT.—The Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Commission.
*øSo in law as amended by section 401 of the Electronic Signatures in Global and National
Commerce Act (P.L. 106–229; 114 Stat 476) and section 5001 of the Intellectual Property and
Communications Omnibus Reform Act of 1999 (P.L. 106–113, Appendix I; 113 Stat. 1501A–521).
Should have been redesignated as subsections (i) and (j).¿
(1) PROHIBITED CONDUCT.—Whoever knowingly and with
knowledge of the character of the material, in interstate or for-
eign commerce by means of the World Wide Web, makes any
communication for commercial purposes that is available to
any minor and that includes any material that is harmful to
minors shall be fined not more than $50,000, imprisoned not
more than 6 months, or both.
(2) INTENTIONAL VIOLATIONS.—In addition to the penalties
under paragraph (1), whoever intentionally violates such para-
graph shall be subject to a fine of not more than $50,000 for
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
92Sec. 231 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
each violation. For purposes of this paragraph, each day of vio-
lation shall constitute a separate violation.
(3) CIVIL PENALTY.—In addition to the penalties under
paragraphs (1) and (2), whoever violates paragraph (1) shall be
subject to a civil penalty of not more than $50,000 for each vio-
lation. For purposes of this paragraph, each day of violation
shall constitute a separate violation.
(b) INAPPLICABILITY OF CARRIERS AND OTHER SERVICE PRO-
VIDERS.—For purposes of subsection (a), a person shall not be con-
sidered to make any communication for commercial purposes to the
extent that such person is—
(1) a telecommunications carrier engaged in the provision
of a telecommunications service;
(2) a person engaged in the business of providing an Inter-
net access service;
(3) a person engaged in the business of providing an Inter-
net information location tool; or
(4) similarly engaged in the transmission, storage, re-
trieval, hosting, formatting, or translation (or any combination
thereof) of a communication made by another person, without
selection or alteration of the content of the communication, ex-
cept that such person’s deletion of a particular communication
or material made by another person in a manner consistent
with subsection (c) or section 230 shall not constitute such se-
lection or alteration of the content of the communication.
(c) A FFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.—
(1) DEFENSE.—It is an affirmative defense to prosecution
under this section that the defendant, in good faith, has re-
stricted access by minors to material that is harmful to mi-
nors—
(A) by requiring use of a credit card, debit account,
adult access code, or adult personal identification number;
(B) by accepting a digital certificate that verifies age;
or
(C) by any other reasonable measures that are feasible
under available technology.
(2) PROTECTION FOR USE OF DEFENSES.—No cause of action
may be brought in any court or administrative agency against
any person on account of any activity that is not in violation
of any law punishable by criminal or civil penalty, and that the
person has taken in good faith to implement a defense author-
ized under this subsection or otherwise to restrict or prevent
the transmission of, or access to, a communication specified in
this section.
(d) P RIVACY PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION LIMITED.—A person mak-
ing a communication described in subsection (a)—
(A) shall not disclose any information collected for the
purposes of restricting access to such communications to
individuals 17 years of age or older without the prior writ-
ten or electronic consent of—
(i) the individual concerned, if the individual is an
adult; or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
93 Sec. 231COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
11 So in law. Should probably be ‘‘section’’.
(ii) the individual’s parent or guardian, if the indi-
vidual is under 17 years of age; and
(B) shall take such actions as are necessary to prevent
unauthorized access to such information by a person other
than the person making such communication and the re-
cipient of such communication.
(2) EXCEPTIONS.—A person making a communication de-
scribed in subsection (a) may disclose such information if the
disclosure is—
(A) necessary to make the communication or conduct
a legitimate business activity related to making the com-
munication; or
(B) made pursuant to a court order authorizing such
disclosure.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection 11 , the fol-
lowing definitions shall apply:
(1) BY MEANS OF THE WORLD WIDE WEB.—The term ‘‘by
means of the World Wide Web’’ means by placement of mate-
rial in a computer server-based file archive so that it is pub-
licly accessible, over the Internet, using hypertext transfer pro-
tocol or any successor protocol.
(2) C OMMERCIAL PURPOSES; ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS.—
(A) COMMERCIAL PURPOSES.—A person shall be consid-
ered to make a communication for commercial purposes
only if such person is engaged in the business of making
such communications.
(B) ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS.—The term ‘‘engaged in
the business’’ means that the person who makes a commu-
nication, or offers to make a communication, by means of
the World Wide Web, that includes any material that is
harmful to minors, devotes time, attention, or labor to
such activities, as a regular course of such person’s trade
or business, with the objective of earning a profit as a re-
sult of such activities (although it is not necessary that the
person make a profit or that the making or offering to
make such communications be the person’s sole or prin-
cipal business or source of income). A person may be con-
sidered to be engaged in the business of making, by means
of the World Wide Web, communications for commercial
purposes that include material that is harmful to minors,
only if the person knowingly causes the material that is
harmful to minors to be posted on the World Wide Web or
knowingly solicits such material to be posted on the World
Wide Web.
(3) INTERNET.—The term ‘‘Internet’’ means the combina-
tion of computer facilities and electromagnetic transmission
media, and related equipment and software, comprising the
interconnected worldwide network of computer networks that
employ the Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol or
any successor protocol to transmit information.
(4) INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—The term ‘‘Internet access
service’’ means a service that enables users to access content,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
94Sec. 251 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
information, electronic mail, or other services offered over the
Internet, and may also include access to proprietary content,
information, and other services as part of a package of services
offered to consumers. Such term does not include telecommuni-
cations services.
(5) INTERNET INFORMATION LOCATION TOOL.—The term
‘‘Internet information location tool’’ means a service that refers
or links users to an online location on the World Wide Web.
Such term includes directories, indices, references, pointers,
and hypertext links.
(6) MATERIAL THAT IS HARMFUL TO MINORS.—The term
‘‘material that is harmful to minors’’ means any communica-
tion, picture, image, graphic image file, article, recording, writ-
ing, or other matter of any kind that is obscene or that—
(A) the average person, applying contemporary com-
munity standards, would find, taking the material as a
whole and with respect to minors, is designed to appeal to,
or is designed to pander to, the prurient interest;
(B) depicts, describes, or represents, in a manner pat-
ently offensive with respect to minors, an actual or simu-
lated sexual act or sexual contact, an actual or simulated
normal or perverted sexual act, or a lewd exhibition of the
genitals or post-pubescent female breast; and
(C) taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value for minors.
(7) MINOR.—The term ‘‘minor’’ means any person under 17
years of age.
PART II—DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETITIVE
MARKETS
SEC. 251. ø47 U.S.C. 251¿ INTERCONNECTION.
(a) GENERAL DUTY OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS.—Each
telecommunications carrier has the duty—
(1) to interconnect directly or indirectly with the facilities
and equipment of other telecommunications carriers; and
(2) not to install network features, functions, or capabili-
ties that do not comply with the guidelines and standards es-
tablished pursuant to section 255 or 256.
(b) OBLIGATIONS OF ALL LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIERS.—Each
local exchange carrier has the following duties:
(1) R ESALE.—The duty not to prohibit, and not to impose
unreasonable or discriminatory conditions or limitations on,
the resale of its telecommunications services.
(2) NUMBER PORTABILITY.—The duty to provide, to the ex-
tent technically feasible, number portability in accordance with
requirements prescribed by the Commission.
(3) DIALING PARITY.—The duty to provide dialing parity to
competing providers of telephone exchange service and tele-
phone toll service, and the duty to permit all such providers to
have nondiscriminatory access to telephone numbers, operator
services, directory assistance, and directory listing, with no un-
reasonable dialing delays.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
95 Sec. 251COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(4) ACCESS TO RIGHTS-OF-WAY.—The duty to afford access
to the poles, ducts, conduits, and rights-of-way of such carrier
to competing providers of telecommunications services on rates,
terms, and conditions that are consistent with section 224.
(5) RECIPROCAL COMPENSATION.—The duty to establish re-
ciprocal compensation arrangements for the transport and ter-
mination of telecommunications.
(c) ADDITIONAL OBLIGATIONS OF INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE
CARRIERS.—In addition to the duties contained in subsection (b),
each incumbent local exchange carrier has the following duties:
(1) DUTY TO NEGOTIATE.—The duty to negotiate in good
faith in accordance with section 252 the particular terms and
conditions of agreements to fulfill the duties described in para-
graphs (1) through (5) of subsection (b) and this subsection.
The requesting telecommunications carrier also has the duty to
negotiate in good faith the terms and conditions of such agree-
ments.
(2) INTERCONNECTION.—The duty to provide, for the facili-
ties and equipment of any requesting telecommunications car-
rier, interconnection with the local exchange carrier’s net-
work— (A) for the transmission and routing of telephone ex-
change service and exchange access;
(B) at any technically feasible point within the car-
rier’s network;
(C) that is at least equal in quality to that provided
by the local exchange carrier to itself or to any subsidiary,
affiliate, or any other party to which the carrier provides
interconnection; and
(D) on rates, terms, and conditions that are just, rea-
sonable, and nondiscriminatory, in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the agreement and the require-
ments of this section and section 252.
(3) UNBUNDLED ACCESS.—The duty to provide, to any re-
questing telecommunications carrier for the provision of a tele-
communications service, nondiscriminatory access to network
elements on an unbundled basis at any technically feasible
point on rates, terms, and conditions that are just, reasonable,
and nondiscriminatory in accordance with the terms and condi-
tions of the agreement and the requirements of this section
and section 252. An incumbent local exchange carrier shall
provide such unbundled network elements in a manner that al-
lows requesting carriers to combine such elements in order to
provide such telecommunications service.
(4) RESALE.—The duty—
(A) to offer for resale at wholesale rates any tele-
communications service that the carrier provides at retail
to subscribers who are not telecommunications carriers;
and (B) not to prohibit, and not to impose unreasonable or
discriminatory conditions or limitations on, the resale of
such telecommunications service, except that a State com-
mission may, consistent with regulations prescribed by the
Commission under this section, prohibit a reseller that ob-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
96Sec. 251 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tains at wholesale rates a telecommunications service that
is available at retail only to a category of subscribers from
offering such service to a different category of subscribers.
(5) NOTICE OF CHANGES.—The duty to provide reasonable
public notice of changes in the information necessary for the
transmission and routing of services using that local exchange
carrier’s facilities or networks, as well as of any other changes
that would affect the interoperability of those facilities and
networks.
(6) COLLOCATION.—The duty to provide, on rates, terms,
and conditions that are just, reasonable, and nondiscrim-
inatory, for physical collocation of equipment necessary for
interconnection or access to unbundled network elements at
the premises of the local exchange carrier, except that the car-
rier may provide for virtual collocation if the local exchange
carrier demonstrates to the State commission that physical col-
location is not practical for technical reasons or because of
space limitations.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—Within 6 months after the date of enact-
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Commission
shall complete all actions necessary to establish regulations to
implement the requirements of this section.
(2) ACCESS STANDARDS.—In determining what network ele-
ments should be made available for purposes of subsection
(c)(3), the Commission shall consider, at a minimum, wheth-
er—
(A) access to such network elements as are proprietary
in nature is necessary; and
(B) the failure to provide access to such network ele-
ments would impair the ability of the telecommunications
carrier seeking access to provide the services that it seeks
to offer.
(3) PRESERVATION OF STATE ACCESS REGULATIONS.—In pre-
scribing and enforcing regulations to implement the require-
ments of this section, the Commission shall not preclude the
enforcement of any regulation, order, or policy of a State com-
mission that—
(A) establishes access and interconnection obligations
of local exchange carriers;
(B) is consistent with the requirements of this section;
and
(C) does not substantially prevent implementation of
the requirements of this section and the purposes of this
part.
(e) NUMBERING ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) COMMISSION AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.—The Com-
mission shall create or designate one or more impartial entities
to administer telecommunications numbering and to make
such numbers available on an equitable basis. The Commission
shall have exclusive jurisdiction over those portions of the
North American Numbering Plan that pertain to the United
States. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Commis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
97 Sec. 251COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
12 Paragraph (3) of section 251(e) was added by section 3(a) of the Wireless Communications
and Public Safety Act of 1999 (P.L. 106–81; 113 Stat. 3). Subsection (b) of such section provides
as follows:
(b) ø47 U.S.C. 615¿S UPPORT.—The Federal Communications Commission shall encourage and
support efforts by States to deploy comprehensive end-to-end emergency communications infra-
structure and programs, based on coordinated statewide plans, including seamless, ubiquitous,
reliable wireless telecommunications networks and enhanced wireless 9–1–1 service. In encour-
aging and supporting that deployment, the Commission shall consult and cooperate with State
and local officials responsible for emergency services and public safety, the telecommunications
industry (specifically including the cellular and other wireless telecommunications service pro-
viders), the motor vehicle manufacturing industry, emergency medical service providers and
emergency dispatch providers, transportation officials, special 9–1–1 districts, public safety, fire
service and law enforcement officials, consumer groups, and hospital emergency and trauma
care personnel (including emergency physicians, trauma surgeons, and nurses). The Commission
shall encourage each State to develop and implement coordinated statewide deployment plans,
through an entity designated by the governor, and to include representatives of the foregoing
organizations and entities in development and implementation of such plans. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed to authorize or require the Commission to impose obligations or
costs on any person.
sion from delegating to State commissions or other entities all
or any portion of such jurisdiction.
(2) COSTS.—The cost of establishing telecommunications
numbering administration arrangements and number port-
ability shall be borne by all telecommunications carriers on a
competitively neutral basis as determined by the Commission.
(3) 12 UNIVERSAL EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBER.—The
Commission and any agency or entity to which the Commission
has delegated authority under this subsection shall designate
9–1–1 as the universal emergency telephone number within
the United States for reporting an emergency to appropriate
authorities and requesting assistance. The designation shall
apply to both wireline and wireless telephone service. In mak-
ing the designation, the Commission (and any such agency or
entity) shall provide appropriate transition periods for areas in
which 9–1–1 is not in use as an emergency telephone number
on the date of enactment of the Wireless Communications and
Public Safety Act of 1999.
(4) UNIVERSAL TELEPHONE NUMBER FOR NATIONAL SUICIDE
PREVENTION AND MENTAL HEALTH CRISIS HOTLINE SYSTEM.—9–
8–8 is designated as the universal telephone number within
the United States for the purpose of the national suicide pre-
vention and mental health crisis hotline system operating
through the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline maintained
by the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance
Use under section 520E–3 of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 290bb–36c) and through the Veterans Crisis Line main-
tained by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under section
1720F(h) of title 38, United States Code.
(f) EXEMPTIONS, SUSPENSIONS, AND MODIFICATIONS.—
(1) EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN RURAL TELEPHONE
COMPANIES.—
(A) EXEMPTION.—Subsection (c) of this section shall
not apply to a rural telephone company until (i) such com-
pany has received a bona fide request for interconnection,
services, or network elements, and (ii) the State commis-
sion determines (under subparagraph (B)) that such re-
quest is not unduly economically burdensome, is tech-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
98Sec. 251 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
nically feasible, and is consistent with section 254 (other
than subsections (b)(7) and (c)(1)(D) thereof).
(B) STATE TERMINATION OF EXEMPTION AND IMPLEMEN-
TATION SCHEDULE.—The party making a bona fide request
of a rural telephone company for interconnection, services,
or network elements shall submit a notice of its request to
the State commission. The State commission shall conduct
an inquiry for the purpose of determining whether to ter-
minate the exemption under subparagraph (A). Within 120
days after the State commission receives notice of the re-
quest, the State commission shall terminate the exemption
if the request is not unduly economically burdensome, is
technically feasible, and is consistent with section 254
(other than subsections (b)(7) and (c)(1)(D) thereof). Upon
termination of the exemption, a State commission shall es-
tablish an implementation schedule for compliance with
the request that is consistent in time and manner with
Commission regulations.
(C) LIMITATION ON EXEMPTION.—The exemption pro-
vided by this paragraph shall not apply with respect to a
request under subsection (c) from a cable operator pro-
viding video programming, and seeking to provide any
telecommunications service, in the area in which the rural
telephone company provides video programming. The limi-
tation contained in this subparagraph shall not apply to a
rural telephone company that is providing video program-
ming on the date of enactment of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996.
(2) SUSPENSIONS AND MODIFICATIONS FOR RURAL CAR-
RIERS.—A local exchange carrier with fewer than 2 percent of
the Nation’s subscriber lines installed in the aggregate nation-
wide may petition a State commission for a suspension or
modification of the application of a requirement or require-
ments of subsection (b) or (c) to telephone exchange service fa-
cilities specified in such petition. The State commission shall
grant such petition to the extent that, and for such duration
as, the State commission determines that such suspension or
modification—
(A) is necessary—
(i) to avoid a significant adverse economic impact
on users of telecommunications services generally;
(ii) to avoid imposing a requirement that is un-
duly economically burdensome; or
(iii) to avoid imposing a requirement that is tech-
nically infeasible; and
(B) is consistent with the public interest, convenience,
and necessity.
The State commission shall act upon any petition filed under
this paragraph within 180 days after receiving such petition.
Pending such action, the State commission may suspend en-
forcement of the requirement or requirements to which the pe-
tition applies with respect to the petitioning carrier or carriers.
(g) CONTINUED ENFORCEMENT OF EXCHANGE ACCESS AND
INTERCONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.—On and after the date of enact-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
99 Sec. 252COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, each local exchange
carrier, to the extent that it provides wireline services, shall pro-
vide exchange access, information access, and exchange services for
such access to interexchange carriers and information service pro-
viders in accordance with the same equal access and nondiscrim-
inatory interconnection restrictions and obligations (including re-
ceipt of compensation) that apply to such carrier on the date imme-
diately preceding the date of enactment of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996 under any court order, consent decree, or regulation,
order, or policy of the Commission, until such restrictions and obli-
gations are explicitly superseded by regulations prescribed by the
Commission after such date of enactment. During the period begin-
ning on such date of enactment and until such restrictions and ob-
ligations are so superseded, such restrictions and obligations shall
be enforceable in the same manner as regulations of the Commis-
sion.(h) DEFINITION OF INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER.—
(1) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘in-
cumbent local exchange carrier’’ means, with respect to an
area, the local exchange carrier that—
(A) on the date of enactment of the Telecommuni-
cations Act of 1996, provided telephone exchange service in
such area; and
(B)(i) on such date of enactment, was deemed to be a
member of the exchange carrier association pursuant to
section 69.601(b) of the Commission’s regulations (47
C.F.R. 69.601(b)); or
(ii) is a person or entity that, on or after such date of
enactment, became a successor or assign of a member de-
scribed in clause (i).
(2) TREATMENT OF COMPARABLE CARRIERS AS INCUM-
BENTS.—The Commission may, by rule, provide for the treat-
ment of a local exchange carrier (or class or category thereof)
as an incumbent local exchange carrier for purposes of this sec-
tion if— (A) such carrier occupies a position in the market for
telephone exchange service within an area that is com-
parable to the position occupied by a carrier described in
paragraph (1);
(B) such carrier has substantially replaced an incum-
bent local exchange carrier described in paragraph (1); and
(C) such treatment is consistent with the public inter-
est, convenience, and necessity and the purposes of this
section.
(i) S AVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to limit or otherwise affect the Commission’s authority
under section 201.
SEC. 252. ø47 U.S.C. 252¿ PROCEDURES FOR NEGOTIATION, ARBITRA-
TION, AND APPROVAL OF AGREEMENTS.
(a) AGREEMENTS ARRIVED AT THROUGH NEGOTIATION.—
(1) VOLUNTARY NEGOTIATIONS.—Upon receiving a request
for interconnection, services, or network elements pursuant to
section 251, an incumbent local exchange carrier may negotiate
and enter into a binding agreement with the requesting tele-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
100Sec. 252 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
communications carrier or carriers without regard to the
standards set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 251.
The agreement shall include a detailed schedule of itemized
charges for interconnection and each service or network ele-
ment included in the agreement. The agreement, including any
interconnection agreement negotiated before the date of enact-
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, shall be sub-
mitted to the State commission under subsection (e) of this sec-
tion.
(2) MEDIATION.—Any party negotiating an agreement
under this section may, at any point in the negotiation, ask a
State commission to participate in the negotiation and to medi-
ate any differences arising in the course of the negotiation.
(b) AGREEMENTS ARRIVED AT THROUGH COMPULSORY ARBITRA-
TION.—
(1) ARBITRATION.—During the period from the 135th to the
160th day (inclusive) after the date on which an incumbent
local exchange carrier receives a request for negotiation under
this section, the carrier or any other party to the negotiation
may petition a State commission to arbitrate any open issues.
(2) DUTY OF PETITIONER.—
(A) A party that petitions a State commission under
paragraph (1) shall, at the same time as it submits the pe-
tition, provide the State commission all relevant docu-
mentation concerning—
(i) the unresolved issues;
(ii) the position of each of the parties with respect
to those issues; and
(iii) any other issue discussed and resolved by the
parties.
(B) A party petitioning a State commission under
paragraph (1) shall provide a copy of the petition and any
documentation to the other party or parties not later than
the day on which the State commission receives the peti-
tion.
(3) OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND.—A non-petitioning party to
a negotiation under this section may respond to the other par-
ty’s petition and provide such additional information as it
wishes within 25 days after the State commission receives the
petition.
(4) ACTION BY STATE COMMISSION.—
(A) The State commission shall limit its consideration
of any petition under paragraph (1) (and any response
thereto) to the issues set forth in the petition and in the
response, if any, filed under paragraph (3).
(B) The State commission may require the petitioning
party and the responding party to provide such informa-
tion as may be necessary for the State commission to reach
a decision on the unresolved issues. If any party refuses or
fails unreasonably to respond on a timely basis to any rea-
sonable request from the State commission, then the State
commission may proceed on the basis of the best informa-
tion available to it from whatever source derived.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
101 Sec. 252COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(C) The State commission shall resolve each issue set
forth in the petition and the response, if any, by imposing
appropriate conditions as required to implement sub-
section (c) upon the parties to the agreement, and shall
conclude the resolution of any unresolved issues not later
than 9 months after the date on which the local exchange
carrier received the request under this section.
(5) REFUSAL TO NEGOTIATE.—The refusal of any other
party to the negotiation to participate further in the negotia-
tions, to cooperate with the State commission in carrying out
its function as an arbitrator, or to continue to negotiate in good
faith in the presence, or with the assistance, of the State com-
mission shall be considered a failure to negotiate in good faith.
(c) STANDARDS FOR ARBITRATION.—In resolving by arbitration
under subsection (b) any open issues and imposing conditions upon
the parties to the agreement, a State commission shall—
(1) ensure that such resolution and conditions meet the re-
quirements of section 251, including the regulations prescribed
by the Commission pursuant to section 251;
(2) establish any rates for interconnection, services, or net-
work elements according to subsection (d); and
(3) provide a schedule for implementation of the terms and
conditions by the parties to the agreement.
(d) PRICING STANDARDS.—
(1) INTERCONNECTION AND NETWORK ELEMENT CHARGES.—
Determinations by a State commission of the just and reason-
able rate for the interconnection of facilities and equipment for
purposes of subsection (c)(2) of section 251, and the just and
reasonable rate for network elements for purposes of sub-
section (c)(3) of such section—
(A) shall be—
(i) based on the cost (determined without ref-
erence to a rate-of-return or other rate-based pro-
ceeding) of providing the interconnection or network
element (whichever is applicable), and
(ii) nondiscriminatory, and
(B) may include a reasonable profit.
(2) CHARGES FOR TRANSPORT AND TERMINATION OF TRAF-
FIC.— (A) IN GENERAL.—For the purposes of compliance by
an incumbent local exchange carrier with section 251(b)(5),
a State commission shall not consider the terms and condi-
tions for reciprocal compensation to be just and reasonable
unless— (i) such terms and conditions provide for the mu-
tual and reciprocal recovery by each carrier of costs
associated with the transport and termination on each
carrier’s network facilities of calls that originate on
the network facilities of the other carrier; and
(ii) such terms and conditions determine such
costs on the basis of a reasonable approximation of the
additional costs of terminating such calls.
(B) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—This paragraph shall
not be construed—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
102Sec. 252 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(i) to preclude arrangements that afford the mu-
tual recovery of costs through the offsetting of recip-
rocal obligations, including arrangements that waive
mutual recovery (such as bill-and-keep arrangements);
or
(ii) to authorize the Commission or any State com-
mission to engage in any rate regulation proceeding to
establish with particularity the additional costs of
transporting or terminating calls, or to require car-
riers to maintain records with respect to the addi-
tional costs of such calls.
(3) WHOLESALE PRICES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERV-
ICES.—For the purposes of section 251(c)(4), a State commis-
sion shall determine wholesale rates on the basis of retail rates
charged to subscribers for the telecommunications service re-
quested, excluding the portion thereof attributable to any mar-
keting, billing, collection, and other costs that will be avoided
by the local exchange carrier.
(e) APPROVAL BY STATE COMMISSION.—
(1) APPROVAL REQUIRED.—Any interconnection agreement
adopted by negotiation or arbitration shall be submitted for ap-
proval to the State commission. A State commission to which
an agreement is submitted shall approve or reject the agree-
ment, with written findings as to any deficiencies.
(2) GROUNDS FOR REJECTION.—The State commission may
only reject—
(A) an agreement (or any portion thereof) adopted by
negotiation under subsection (a) if it finds that—
(i) the agreement (or portion thereof) discrimi-
nates against a telecommunications carrier not a party
to the agreement; or
(ii) the implementation of such agreement or por-
tion is not consistent with the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity; or
(B) an agreement (or any portion thereof) adopted by
arbitration under subsection (b) if it finds that the agree-
ment does not meet the requirements of section 251, in-
cluding the regulations prescribed by the Commission pur-
suant to section 251, or the standards set forth in sub-
section (d) of this section.
(3) PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding para-
graph (2), but subject to section 253, nothing in this section
shall prohibit a State commission from establishing or enforc-
ing other requirements of State law in its review of an agree-
ment, including requiring compliance with intrastate tele-
communications service quality standards or requirements.
(4) SCHEDULE FOR DECISION.—If the State commission does
not act to approve or reject the agreement within 90 days after
submission by the parties of an agreement adopted by negotia-
tion under subsection (a), or within 30 days after submission
by the parties of an agreement adopted by arbitration under
subsection (b), the agreement shall be deemed approved. No
State court shall have jurisdiction to review the action of a
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
103 Sec. 252COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
State commission in approving or rejecting an agreement
under this section.
(5) COMMISSION TO ACT IF STATE WILL NOT ACT.—If a State
commission fails to act to carry out its responsibility under this
section in any proceeding or other matter under this section,
then the Commission shall issue an order preempting the State
commission’s jurisdiction of that proceeding or matter within
90 days after being notified (or taking notice) of such failure,
and shall assume the responsibility of the State commission
under this section with respect to the proceeding or matter and
act for the State commission.
(6) REVIEW OF STATE COMMISSION ACTIONS.—In a case in
which a State fails to act as described in paragraph (5), the
proceeding by the Commission under such paragraph and any
judicial review of the Commission’s actions shall be the exclu-
sive remedies for a State commission’s failure to act. In any
case in which a State commission makes a determination
under this section, any party aggrieved by such determination
may bring an action in an appropriate Federal district court to
determine whether the agreement or statement meets the re-
quirements of section 251 and this section.
(f) STATEMENTS OF GENERALLY AVAILABLE TERMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A Bell operating company may prepare
and file with a State commission a statement of the terms and
conditions that such company generally offers within that
State to comply with the requirements of section 251 and the
regulations thereunder and the standards applicable under
this section.
(2) STATE COMMISSION REVIEW.—A State commission may
not approve such statement unless such statement complies
with subsection (d) of this section and section 251 and the reg-
ulations thereunder. Except as provided in section 253, nothing
in this section shall prohibit a State commission from estab-
lishing or enforcing other requirements of State law in its re-
view of such statement, including requiring compliance with
intrastate telecommunications service quality standards or re-
quirements.
(3) SCHEDULE FOR REVIEW.—The State commission to
which a statement is submitted shall, not later than 60 days
after the date of such submission—
(A) complete the review of such statement under para-
graph (2) (including any reconsideration thereof), unless
the submitting carrier agrees to an extension of the period
for such review; or
(B) permit such statement to take effect.
(4) AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE REVIEW.—Paragraph (3) shall
not preclude the State commission from continuing to review
a statement that has been permitted to take effect under sub-
paragraph (B) of such paragraph or from approving or dis-
approving such statement under paragraph (2).
(5) D UTY TO NEGOTIATE NOT AFFECTED.—The submission or
approval of a statement under this subsection shall not relieve
a Bell operating company of its duty to negotiate the terms and
conditions of an agreement under section 251.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
104Sec. 253 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(g) CONSOLIDATION OF STATE PROCEEDINGS.—Where not incon-
sistent with the requirements of this Act, a State commission may,
to the extent practical, consolidate proceedings under sections
214(e), 251(f), 253, and this section in order to reduce administra-
tive burdens on telecommunications carriers, other parties to the
proceedings, and the State commission in carrying out its respon-
sibilities under this Act.
(h) FILING REQUIRED.—A State commission shall make a copy
of each agreement approved under subsection (e) and each state-
ment approved under subsection (f) available for public inspection
and copying within 10 days after the agreement or statement is ap-
proved. The State commission may charge a reasonable and non-
discriminatory fee to the parties to the agreement or to the party
filing the statement to cover the costs of approving and filing such
agreement or statement.
(i) A VAILABILITY TO OTHER TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS.—
A local exchange carrier shall make available any interconnection,
service, or network element provided under an agreement approved
under this section to which it is a party to any other requesting
telecommunications carrier upon the same terms and conditions as
those provided in the agreement.
(j) DEFINITION OF INCUMBENT LOCAL EXCHANGE CARRIER.—For
purposes of this section, the term ‘‘incumbent local exchange car-
rier’’ has the meaning provided in section 251(h).
SEC. 253. ø47 U.S.C. 253¿ REMOVAL OF BARRIERS TO ENTRY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—No State or local statute or regulation, or
other State or local legal requirement, may prohibit or have the ef-
fect of prohibiting the ability of any entity to provide any interstate
or intrastate telecommunications service.
(b) STATE REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this section
shall affect the ability of a State to impose, on a competitively neu-
tral basis and consistent with section 254, requirements necessary
to preserve and advance universal service, protect the public safety
and welfare, ensure the continued quality of telecommunications
services, and safeguard the rights of consumers.
(c) S TATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY.—Nothing in
this section affects the authority of a State or local government to
manage the public rights-of-way or to require fair and reasonable
compensation from telecommunications providers, on a competi-
tively neutral and nondiscriminatory basis, for use of public rights-
of-way on a nondiscriminatory basis, if the compensation required
is publicly disclosed by such government.
(d) PREEMPTION.—If, after notice and an opportunity for public
comment, the Commission determines that a State or local govern-
ment has permitted or imposed any statute, regulation, or legal re-
quirement that violates subsection (a) or (b), the Commission shall
preempt the enforcement of such statute, regulation, or legal re-
quirement to the extent necessary to correct such violation or in-
consistency.
(e) COMMERCIAL MOBILE SERVICE PROVIDERS.—Nothing in this
section shall affect the application of section 332(c)(3) to commer-
cial mobile service providers.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00104 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
105 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
13 Section 623 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act, 1998 (P.L. 105–119; Nov. 26, 1997; 111 Stat. 2521) contained the
following reporting requirments with respect to universal service:
S EC. 623. R EPORT ON U NIVERSAL S ERVICE UNDER THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS A CT OF 1996.—
(a) The Federal Communications Commission shall undertake a review of the implementation
by the Commission of the provisions of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Public Law 104–
104) relating to universal service. Such review shall be completed and submitted to the Congress
no later than April 10, 1998.
(b) The report required under subsection (a) shall provide a detailed description of the extent
to which the Commission interpretations reviewed under paragraphs (1) through (5) are con-
sistent with the plain language of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), as
amended by the Telecommunications Act of 1996, and shall include a review of—
(1) the definitions of ‘‘information service’’, ‘‘local exchange carrier’’, ‘‘telecommunications’’,
‘‘telecommunications service’’, ‘‘telecommunications carrier’’, and ‘‘telephone exchange serv-
ice’’ that were added to section 3 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 153) by
the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and the impact of the Commission’s interpretation of
those definitions on the current and future provision of universal service to consumers in
all areas of the Nation, including high cost and rural areas;
(2) the application of those definitions to mixed or hybrid services and the impact of such
application on universal service definitions and support, and the consistency of the Commis-
sion’s application of those definitions, including with respect to Internet access under sec-
tion 254(h) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254(h));
(3) who is required to contribute to universal service under section 254(d) of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254(d)) and related existing Federal universal service sup-
port mechanisms, and of any exemption of providers or exclusion of any service that in-
cludes telecommunications from such requirement or support mechanisms;
(4) who is eligible under sections 254(e), 254(h)(1), and 254(h)(2) of the Communications
Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254(e), 254(h)(1), and 254(h)(2)) to receive specific Federal universal
service support for the provision of universal service, and the consistency with which the
Commission has interpreted each of those provisions of section 254; and
(5) the Commission’s decisions regarding the percentage of universal service support pro-
vided by Federal mechanisms and the revenue base from which such support is derived.
(f) RURAL MARKETS.—It shall not be a violation of this section
for a State to require a telecommunications carrier that seeks to
provide telephone exchange service or exchange access in a service
area served by a rural telephone company to meet the require-
ments in section 214(e)(1) for designation as an eligible tele-
communications carrier for that area before being permitted to pro-
vide such service. This subsection shall not apply—
(1) to a service area served by a rural telephone company
that has obtained an exemption, suspension, or modification of
section 251(c)(4) that effectively prevents a competitor from
meeting the requirements of section 214(e)(1); and
(2) to a provider of commercial mobile services.
SEC. 254. ø47 U.S.C. 254¿ UNIVERSAL SERVICE. 13
(a) PROCEDURES TO REVIEW UNIVERSAL SERVICE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
(1) F EDERAL-STATE JOINT BOARD ON UNIVERSAL SERVICE.—
Within one month after the date of enactment of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996, the Commission shall institute
and refer to a Federal-State Joint Board under section 410(c)
a proceeding to recommend changes to any of its regulations in
order to implement sections 214(e) and this section, including
the definition of the services that are supported by Federal
universal service support mechanisms and a specific timetable
for completion of such recommendations. In addition to the
members of the Joint Board required under section 410(c), one
member of such Joint Board shall be a State-appointed utility
consumer advocate nominated by a national organization of
State utility consumer advocates. The Joint Board shall, after
notice and opportunity for public comment, make its rec-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00105 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
106Sec. 254 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ommendations to the Commission 9 months after the date of
enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(2) COMMISSION ACTION.—The Commission shall initiate a
single proceeding to implement the recommendations from the
Joint Board required by paragraph (1) and shall complete such
proceeding within 15 months after the date of enactment of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996. The rules established by such
proceeding shall include a definition of the services that are
supported by Federal universal service support mechanisms
and a specific timetable for implementation. Thereafter, the
Commission shall complete any proceeding to implement sub-
sequent recommendations from any Joint Board on universal
service within one year after receiving such recommendations.
(b) UNIVERSAL SERVICE PRINCIPLES.—The Joint Board and the
Commission shall base policies for the preservation and advance-
ment of universal service on the following principles:
(1) QUALITY AND RATES.—Quality services should be avail-
able at just, reasonable, and affordable rates.
(2) ACCESS TO ADVANCED SERVICES.—Access to advanced
telecommunications and information services should be pro-
vided in all regions of the Nation.
(3) ACCESS IN RURAL AND HIGH COST AREAS.—Consumers
in all regions of the Nation, including low-income consumers
and those in rural, insular, and high cost areas, should have
access to telecommunications and information services, includ-
ing interexchange services and advanced telecommunications
and information services, that are reasonably comparable to
those services provided in urban areas and that are available
at rates that are reasonably comparable to rates charged for
similar services in urban areas.
(4) EQUITABLE AND NONDISCRIMINATORY CONTRIBUTIONS.—
All providers of telecommunications services should make an
equitable and nondiscriminatory contribution to the preserva-
tion and advancement of universal service.
(5) SPECIFIC AND PREDICTABLE SUPPORT MECHANISMS.—
There should be specific, predictable and sufficient Federal and
State mechanisms to preserve and advance universal service.
(6) A CCESS TO ADVANCED TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
FOR SCHOOLS, HEALTH CARE, AND LIBRARIES.—Elementary and
secondary schools and classrooms, health care providers, and
libraries should have access to advanced telecommunications
services as described in subsection (h).
(7) ADDITIONAL PRINCIPLES.—Such other principles as the
Joint Board and the Commission determine are necessary and
appropriate for the protection of the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity and are consistent with this Act.
(c) DEFINITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Universal service is an evolving level of
telecommunications services that the Commission shall estab-
lish periodically under this section, taking into account ad-
vances in telecommunications and information technologies
and services. The Joint Board in recommending, and the Com-
mission in establishing, the definition of the services that are
supported by Federal universal service support mechanisms
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00106 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
107 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
14 Section 3006 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (P.L. 105–33; 111 Stat. 269), which was
repealed by section 622 of the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and
Relate Agencies Appropriations Act; 1998 (P.L. 105–119; 111 Stat. 2521) contained the following
provisions with respect to funds available to carry out section 254 of the Communications Act
of 1934:
SEC. 3006. UNIVERSAL SERVICE FUND PAYMENT SCHEDULE.
(a) A PPROPRIATIONS TO THE U NIVERSAL S ERVICE F UND.—
(1) A PPROPRIATION.—There is hereby appropriated to the Commission $3,000,000,000 in
fiscal year 2001, which shall be disbursed on October 1, 2000, to the Administrator of the
Federal universal service support programs established pursuant to section 254 of the Com-
munications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 254), and which may be expended by the Administrator
in support of such programs as provided pursuant to the rules implementing that section.
(2) R ETURN TO TREASURY.—The Administrator shall transfer $3,000,000,000 from the
funds collected for such support programs to the General Fund of the Treasury on October
1, 2001.
(b) F EE A DJUSTMENTS.—The Commission shall direct the Administrator to adjust payments
by telecommunications carriers and other providers of interstate telecommunications so that the
$3,000,000,000 of the total payments by such carriers or providers to the Administrator for fiscal
year 2001 shall be deferred until October 1, 2001.
(c) P RESERVATION OF A UTHORITY.—Nothing in this section shall affect the Administrator’s au-
thority to determine the amounts that should be expended for universal service support pro-
grams pursuant to section 254 of the Communications Act of 1934 and the rules implementing
that section.
Continued
shall consider the extent to which such telecommunications
services—
(A) are essential to education, public health, or public
safety;
(B) have, through the operation of market choices by
customers, been subscribed to by a substantial majority of
residential customers;
(C) are being deployed in public telecommunications
networks by telecommunications carriers; and
(D) are consistent with the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity.
(2) ALTERATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.—The Joint Board
may, from time to time, recommend to the Commission modi-
fications in the definition of the services that are supported by
Federal universal service support mechanisms.
(3) S PECIAL SERVICES.—In addition to the services included
in the definition of universal service under paragraph (1), the
Commission may designate additional services for such support
mechanisms for schools, libraries, and health care providers for
the purposes of subsection (h).
(d) T ELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER CONTRIBUTION.—Every
telecommunications carrier that provides interstate telecommuni-
cations services shall contribute, on an equitable and nondiscrim-
inatory basis, to the specific, predictable, and sufficient mecha-
nisms established by the Commission to preserve and advance uni-
versal service. The Commission may exempt a carrier or class of
carriers from this requirement if the carrier’s telecommunications
activities are limited to such an extent that the level of such car-
rier’s contribution to the preservation and advancement of uni-
versal service would be de minimis. Any other provider of inter-
state telecommunications may be required to contribute to the
preservation and advancement of universal service if the public in-
terest so requires. 14
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00107 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 5601 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
108Sec. 254 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(d) D EFINITION.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘Administrator’’ means the Adminis-
trator designated by the Federal Communications Commission to administer Federal universal
service support programs pursuant to section 254 of the Communications Act of 1934.
(e) UNIVERSAL SERVICE SUPPORT.—After the date on which
Commission regulations implementing this section take effect, only
an eligible telecommunications carrier designated under section
214(e) shall be eligible to receive specific Federal universal service
support. A carrier that receives such support shall use that support
only for the provision, maintenance, and upgrading of facilities and
services for which the support is intended. Any such support
should be explicit and sufficient to achieve the purposes of this sec-
tion.
(f) STATE AUTHORITY.—A State may adopt regulations not in-
consistent with the Commission’s rules to preserve and advance
universal service. Every telecommunications carrier that provides
intrastate telecommunications services shall contribute, on an equi-
table and nondiscriminatory basis, in a manner determined by the
State to the preservation and advancement of universal service in
that State. A State may adopt regulations to provide for additional
definitions and standards to preserve and advance universal serv-
ice within that State only to the extent that such regulations adopt
additional specific, predictable, and sufficient mechanisms to sup-
port such definitions or standards that do not rely on or burden
Federal universal service support mechanisms.
(g) I NTEREXCHANGE AND INTERSTATE SERVICES.—Within 6
months after the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996, the Commission shall adopt rules to require that the rates
charged by providers of interexchange telecommunications services
to subscribers in rural and high cost areas shall be no higher than
the rates charged by each such provider to its subscribers in urban
areas. Such rules shall also require that a provider of interstate
interexchange telecommunications services shall provide such serv-
ices to its subscribers in each State at rates no higher than the
rates charged to its subscribers in any other State.
(h) TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES FOR CERTAIN PROVIDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS FOR RURAL AREAS.—A
telecommunications carrier shall, upon receiving a bona
fide request, provide telecommunications services which
are necessary for the provision of health care services in
a State, including instruction relating to such services, to
any public or nonprofit health care provider that serves
persons who reside in rural areas in that State at rates
that are reasonably comparable to rates charged for simi-
lar services in urban areas in that State. A telecommuni-
cations carrier providing service under this paragraph
shall be entitled to have an amount equal to the difference,
if any, between the rates for services provided to health
care providers for rural areas in a State and the rates for
similar services provided to other customers in comparable
rural areas in that State treated as a service obligation as
a part of its obligation to participate in the mechanisms to
preserve and advance universal service.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00108 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
109 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
15 Section 1721 of the Children’s Internet Protection Act (P.L. 106–554; Appendix D; 114 Stat.
2763A–343) added paragraphs (5) and (6) and amended paragraph (7) of section 254(h) of the
Communications Act of 1934. The Children’s Internet Protection Act also contained the following
related provisions:
Continued
(B) EDUCATIONAL PROVIDERS AND LIBRARIES.—All tele-
communications carriers serving a geographic area shall,
upon a bona fide request for any of its services that are
within the definition of universal service under subsection
(c)(3), provide such services to elementary schools, sec-
ondary schools, and libraries for educational purposes at
rates less than the amounts charged for similar services to
other parties. The discount shall be an amount that the
Commission, with respect to interstate services, and the
States, with respect to intrastate services, determine is ap-
propriate and necessary to ensure affordable access to and
use of such services by such entities. A telecommunications
carrier providing service under this paragraph shall—
(i) have an amount equal to the amount of the dis-
count treated as an offset to its obligation to con-
tribute to the mechanisms to preserve and advance
universal service, or
(ii) notwithstanding the provisions of subsection
(e) of this section, receive reimbursement utilizing the
support mechanisms to preserve and advance uni-
versal service.
(2) ADVANCED SERVICES.—The Commission shall establish
competitively neutral rules—
(A) to enhance, to the extent technically feasible and
economically reasonable, access to advanced telecommuni-
cations and information services for all public and non-
profit elementary and secondary school classrooms, health
care providers, and libraries; and
(B) to define the circumstances under which a tele-
communications carrier may be required to connect its net-
work to such public institutional telecommunications
users.
(3) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—Telecommunications services
and network capacity provided to a public institutional tele-
communications user under this subsection may not be sold,
resold, or otherwise transferred by such user in consideration
for money or any other thing of value.
(4) ELIGIBILITY OF USERS.—No entity listed in this sub-
section shall be entitled to preferential rates or treatment as
required by this subsection, if such entity operates as a for-
profit business, is a school described in paragraph (7)(A) with
an endowment of more than $50,000,000, or is a library or li-
brary consortium not eligible for assistance from a State li-
brary administrative agency under the Library Services and
Technology Act.
(5) 15 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN SCHOOLS WITH COM-
PUTERS HAVING INTERNET ACCESS.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00109 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 5601 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
110Sec. 254 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
TITLE XVII—CHILDREN’S INTERNET PROTECTION
SEC. 1701. ø20 U.S.C. 6301 note¿ SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Children’s Internet Protection Act’’.
SEC. 1702. DISCLAIMERS.
(a) D ISCLAIMER R EGARDING C ONTENT.—Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this
title shall be construed to prohibit a local educational agency, elementary or secondary school,
or library from blocking access on the Internet on computers owned or operated by that agency,
school, or library to any content other than content covered by this title or the amendments
made by this title.
(b) D ISCLAIMER R EGARDING P RIVACY.—Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this
title shall be construed to require the tracking of Internet use by any identifiable minor or adult
user.
SEC. 1703. STUDY OF TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURES.
(a) I N G ENERAL.—Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
National Telecommunications and Information Administration shall initiate a notice and com-
ment proceeding for purposes of—
(1) evaluating whether or not currently available technology protection measures, includ-
ing commercial Internet blocking and filtering software, adequately addresses the needs of
educational institutions;
(2) making recommendations on how to foster the development of measures that meet
such needs; and
(3) evaluating the development and effectiveness of local Internet safety policies that are
currently in operation after community input.
(b) D EFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) T ECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURE.—The term ‘‘technology protection measure’’ means
a specific technology that blocks or filters Internet access to visual depictions that are—
(A) obscene, as that term is defined in section 1460 of title 18, United States Code;
(B) child pornography, as that term is defined in section 2256 of title 18, United
States Code; or
(C) harmful to minors.
(2) HARMFUL TO MINORS.—The term ‘‘harmful to minors’’ means any picture, image,
graphic image file, or other visual depiction that—
(A) taken as a whole and with respect to minors, appeals to a prurient interest in
nudity, sex, or excretion;
(B) depicts, describes, or represents, in a patently offensive way with respect to what
is suitable for minors, an actual or simulated sexual act or sexual contact, actual or
simulated normal or perverted sexual acts, or a lewd exhibition of the genitals; and
(C) taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value as
to minors.
(3) S EXUAL ACT; SEXUAL CONTACT.—The terms ‘‘sexual act’’ and ‘‘sexual contact’’ have the
meanings given such terms in section 2246 of title 18, United States Code.
Subtitle A—Federal Funding for Educational Institution Computers
SEC. 1711. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN FUNDS FOR SCHOOLS.
Subtitle B—Universal Service Discounts
SEC. 1721. REQUIREMENT FOR SCHOOLS AND LIBRARIES TO ENFORCE INTER-
NET SAFETY POLICIES WITH TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURES FOR
COMPUTERS WITH INTERNET ACCESS AS CONDITION OF UNIVERSAL SERV-
ICE DISCOUNTS.
* * * * * * *
(e) S EPARABILITY.—If any provision of paragraph (5) or (6) of section 254(h) of the Communica-
tions Act of 1934, as amended by this section, or the application thereof to any person or cir-
cumstance is held invalid, the remainder of such paragraph and the application of such para-
graph to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
(f) R EGULATIONS.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—The Federal Communications Commission shall prescribe regulations
for purposes of administering the provisions of paragraphs (5) and (6) of section 254(h) of
the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by this section.
(2) D EADLINE.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Commission shall pre-
scribe regulations under paragraph (1) so as to ensure that such regulations take effect 120
days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(g) A VAILABILITY OF C ERTAIN F UNDS FOR A CQUISITION OF T ECHNOLOGY PROTECTION M EAS-
URES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, funds available under part
B of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, or under section 231
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00110 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 5601 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
111 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
of the Library Services and Technology Act, may be used for the purchase or acquisition
of technology protection measures that are necessary to meet the requirements of this title
and the amendments made by this title. No other sources of funds for the purchase or acqui-
sition of such measures are authorized by this title, or the amendments made by this title.
(2) T ECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURE DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘technology
protection measure’’ has the meaning given that term in section 1703.
(h) E FFECTIVE D ATE.—The amendments made by this section shall take effect 120 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act.
Subtitle C—Neighborhood Children’s Internet Protection
SEC. 1731. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Neighborhood Children’s Internet Protection Act’’.
SEC. 1732. INTERNET SAFETY POLICY REQUIRED.
SEC. 1733. IMPLEMENTING REGULATIONS.
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications
Commission shall prescribe regulations for purposes of section 254(l) of the Communications Act
of 1934, as added by section 1732 of this Act.
Subtitle D—Expedited Review
SEC. 1741. EXPEDITED REVIEW.
(a) T HREE-J UDGE D ISTRICT C OURT H EARING.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any
civil action challenging the constitutionality, on its face, of this title or any amendment made
by this title, or any provision thereof, shall be heard by a district court of three judges convened
pursuant to the provisions of section 2284 of title 28, United States Code.
(b) A PPELLATE R EVIEW.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an interlocutory or final
judgment, decree, or order of the court of three judges in an action under subsection (a) holding
this title or an amendment made by this title, or any provision thereof, unconstitutional shall
be reviewable as a matter of right by direct appeal to the Supreme Court. Any such appeal shall
be filed not more than 20 days after entry of such judgment, decree, or order.
(A) INTERNET SAFETY.—
(i) I N GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii),
an elementary or secondary school having computers
with Internet access may not receive services at dis-
count rates under paragraph (1)(B) unless the school,
school board, local educational agency, or other au-
thority with responsibility for administration of the
school— (I) submits to the Commission the certifi-
cations described in subparagraphs (B) and (C);
(II) submits to the Commission a certification
that an Internet safety policy has been adopted
and implemented for the school under subsection
(l); and
(III) ensures the use of such computers in ac-
cordance with the certifications.
(ii) APPLICABILITY.—The prohibition in clause (i)
shall not apply with respect to a school that receives
services at discount rates under paragraph (1)(B) only
for purposes other than the provision of Internet ac-
cess, Internet service, or internal connections.
(iii) PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING.—An elementary or
secondary school described in clause (i), or the school
board, local educational agency, or other authority
with responsibility for administration of the school,
shall provide reasonable public notice and hold at
least one public hearing or meeting to address the pro-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00111 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
112Sec. 254 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
posed Internet safety policy. In the case of an elemen-
tary or secondary school other than an elementary
school or a secondary school as defined in section 8101
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965, the notice and hearing required by this clause
may be limited to those members of the public with a
relationship to the school.
(B) CERTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO MINORS.—A cer-
tification under this subparagraph is a certification that
the school, school board, local educational agency, or other
authority with responsibility for administration of the
school—
(i) is enforcing a policy of Internet safety for mi-
nors that includes monitoring the online activities of
minors and the operation of a technology protection
measure with respect to any of its computers with
Internet access that protects against access through
such computers to visual depictions that are—
(I) obscene;
(II) child pornography; or
(III) harmful to minors;
(ii) is enforcing the operation of such technology
protection measure during any use of such computers
by minors; and
(iii) as part of its Internet safety policy is edu-
cating minors about appropriate online behavior, in-
cluding interacting with other individuals on social
networking websites and in chat rooms and
cyberbullying awareness and response.
(C) CERTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO ADULTS.—A cer-
tification under this paragraph is a certification that the
school, school board, local educational agency, or other au-
thority with responsibility for administration of the
school—
(i) is enforcing a policy of Internet safety that in-
cludes the operation of a technology protection meas-
ure with respect to any of its computers with Internet
access that protects against access through such com-
puters to visual depictions that are—
(I) obscene; or
(II) child pornography; and
(ii) is enforcing the operation of such technology
protection measure during any use of such computers.
(D) DISABLING DURING ADULT USE.—An administrator,
supervisor, or other person authorized by the certifying au-
thority under subparagraph (A)(i) may disable the tech-
nology protection measure concerned, during use by an
adult, to enable access for bona fide research or other law-
ful purpose.
(E) TIMING OF IMPLEMENTATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii) in the case
of any school covered by this paragraph as of the effec-
tive date of this paragraph under section 1721(h) of
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00112 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
113 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the Children’s Internet Protection Act, the certification
under subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall be made—
(I) with respect to the first program funding
year under this subsection following such effective
date, not later than 120 days after the beginning
of such program funding year; and
(II) with respect to any subsequent program
funding year, as part of the application process for
such program funding year.
(ii) PROCESS.—
(I) SCHOOLS WITH INTERNET SAFETY POLICY
AND TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURES IN
PLACE.—A school covered by clause (i) that has in
place an Internet safety policy and technology pro-
tection measures meeting the requirements nec-
essary for certification under subparagraphs (B)
and (C) shall certify its compliance with subpara-
graphs (B) and (C) during each annual program
application cycle under this subsection, except
that with respect to the first program funding
year after the effective date of this paragraph
under section 1721(h) of the Children’s Internet
Protection Act, the certifications shall be made not
later than 120 days after the beginning of such
first program funding year.
(II) SCHOOLS WITHOUT INTERNET SAFETY POL-
ICY AND TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURES IN
PLACE.—A school covered by clause (i) that does
not have in place an Internet safety policy and
technology protection measures meeting the re-
quirements necessary for certification under sub-
paragraphs (B) and (C)—
(aa) for the first program year after the
effective date of this subsection in which it is
applying for funds under this subsection, shall
certify that it is undertaking such actions, in-
cluding any necessary procurement proce-
dures, to put in place an Internet safety policy
and technology protection measures meeting
the requirements necessary for certification
under subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
(bb) for the second program year after the
effective date of this subsection in which it is
applying for funds under this subsection, shall
certify that it is in compliance with subpara-
graphs (B) and (C).
Any school that is unable to certify compliance
with such requirements in such second program
year shall be ineligible for services at discount
rates or funding in lieu of services at such rates
under this subsection for such second year and all
subsequent program years under this subsection,
until such time as such school comes into compli-
ance with this paragraph.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00113 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
114Sec. 254 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
16 See footnote for paragraph (5).
(III) WAIVERS.—Any school subject to sub-
clause (II) that cannot come into compliance with
subparagraphs (B) and (C) in such second year
program may seek a waiver of subclause (II)(bb) if
State or local procurement rules or regulations or
competitive bidding requirements prevent the
making of the certification otherwise required by
such subclause. A school, school board, local edu-
cational agency, or other authority with responsi-
bility for administration of the school shall notify
the Commission of the applicability of such sub-
clause to the school. Such notice shall certify that
the school in question will be brought into compli-
ance before the start of the third program year
after the effective date of this subsection in which
the school is applying for funds under this sub-
section.
(F) NONCOMPLIANCE.—
(i) F AILURE TO SUBMIT CERTIFICATION.—Any school
that knowingly fails to comply with the application
guidelines regarding the annual submission of certifi-
cation required by this paragraph shall not be eligible
for services at discount rates or funding in lieu of serv-
ices at such rates under this subsection.
(ii) F AILURE TO COMPLY WITH CERTIFICATION.—
Any school that knowingly fails to ensure the use of
its computers in accordance with a certification under
subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall reimburse any funds
and discounts received under this subsection for the
period covered by such certification.
(iii) REMEDY OF NONCOMPLIANCE.—
(I) FAILURE TO SUBMIT.—A school that has
failed to submit a certification under clause (i)
may remedy the failure by submitting the certifi-
cation to which the failure relates. Upon submittal
of such certification, the school shall be eligible for
services at discount rates under this subsection.
(II) F AILURE TO COMPLY.—A school that has
failed to comply with a certification as described
in clause (ii) may remedy the failure by ensuring
the use of its computers in accordance with such
certification. Upon submittal to the Commission of
a certification or other appropriate evidence of
such remedy, the school shall be eligible for serv-
ices at discount rates under this subsection.
(6) 16 REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN LIBRARIES WITH COM-
PUTERS HAVING INTERNET ACCESS.—
(A) INTERNET SAFETY.—
(i) I N GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii),
a library having one or more computers with Internet
access may not receive services at discount rates
under paragraph (1)(B) unless the library—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00114 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
115 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(I) submits to the Commission the certifi-
cations described in subparagraphs (B) and (C);
and (II) submits to the Commission a certification
that an Internet safety policy has been adopted
and implemented for the library under subsection
(l); and
(III) ensures the use of such computers in ac-
cordance with the certifications.
(ii) APPLICABILITY.—The prohibition in clause (i)
shall not apply with respect to a library that receives
services at discount rates under paragraph (1)(B) only
for purposes other than the provision of Internet ac-
cess, Internet service, or internal connections.
(iii) PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING.—A library described
in clause (i) shall provide reasonable public notice and
hold at least one public hearing or meeting to address
the proposed Internet safety policy.
(B) CERTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO MINORS.—A cer-
tification under this subparagraph is a certification that
the library—
(i) is enforcing a policy of Internet safety that in-
cludes the operation of a technology protection meas-
ure with respect to any of its computers with Internet
access that protects against access through such com-
puters to visual depictions that are—
(I) obscene;
(II) child pornography; or
(III) harmful to minors; and
(ii) is enforcing the operation of such technology
protection measure during any use of such computers
by minors.
(C) CERTIFICATION WITH RESPECT TO ADULTS.—A cer-
tification under this paragraph is a certification that the
library—(i) is enforcing a policy of Internet safety that in-
cludes the operation of a technology protection meas-
ure with respect to any of its computers with Internet
access that protects against access through such com-
puters to visual depictions that are—
(I) obscene; or
(II) child pornography; and
(ii) is enforcing the operation of such technology
protection measure during any use of such computers.
(D) DISABLING DURING ADULT USE.—An administrator,
supervisor, or other person authorized by the certifying au-
thority under subparagraph (A)(i) may disable the tech-
nology protection measure concerned, during use by an
adult, to enable access for bona fide research or other law-
ful purpose.
(E) TIMING OF IMPLEMENTATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii) in the case
of any library covered by this paragraph as of the ef-
fective date of this paragraph under section 1721(h) of
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00115 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
116Sec. 254 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the Children’s Internet Protection Act, the certification
under subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall be made—
(I) with respect to the first program funding
year under this subsection following such effective
date, not later than 120 days after the beginning
of such program funding year; and
(II) with respect to any subsequent program
funding year, as part of the application process for
such program funding year.
(ii) PROCESS.—
(I) LIBRARIES WITH INTERNET SAFETY POLICY
AND TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURES IN
PLACE.—A library covered by clause (i) that has in
place an Internet safety policy and technology pro-
tection measures meeting the requirements nec-
essary for certification under subparagraphs (B)
and (C) shall certify its compliance with subpara-
graphs (B) and (C) during each annual program
application cycle under this subsection, except
that with respect to the first program funding
year after the effective date of this paragraph
under section 1721(h) of the Children’s Internet
Protection Act, the certifications shall be made not
later than 120 days after the beginning of such
first program funding year.
(II) LIBRARIES WITHOUT INTERNET SAFETY POL-
ICY AND TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURES IN
PLACE.—A library covered by clause (i) that does
not have in place an Internet safety policy and
technology protection measures meeting the re-
quirements necessary for certification under sub-
paragraphs (B) and (C)—
(aa) for the first program year after the
effective date of this subsection in which it is
applying for funds under this subsection, shall
certify that it is undertaking such actions, in-
cluding any necessary procurement proce-
dures, to put in place an Internet safety policy
and technology protection measures meeting
the requirements necessary for certification
under subparagraphs (B) and (C); and
(bb) for the second program year after the
effective date of this subsection in which it is
applying for funds under this subsection, shall
certify that it is in compliance with subpara-
graphs (B) and (C).
Any library that is unable to certify compliance
with such requirements in such second program
year shall be ineligible for services at discount
rates or funding in lieu of services at such rates
under this subsection for such second year and all
subsequent program years under this subsection,
until such time as such library comes into compli-
ance with this paragraph.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00116 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
117 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(III) WAIVERS.—Any library subject to sub-
clause (II) that cannot come into compliance with
subparagraphs (B) and (C) in such second year
may seek a waiver of subclause (II)(bb) if State or
local procurement rules or regulations or competi-
tive bidding requirements prevent the making of
the certification otherwise required by such sub-
clause. A library, library board, or other authority
with responsibility for administration of the li-
brary shall notify the Commission of the applica-
bility of such subclause to the library. Such notice
shall certify that the library in question will be
brought into compliance before the start of the
third program year after the effective date of this
subsection in which the library is applying for
funds under this subsection.
(F) NONCOMPLIANCE.—
(i) F AILURE TO SUBMIT CERTIFICATION.—Any li-
brary that knowingly fails to comply with the applica-
tion guidelines regarding the annual submission of
certification required by this paragraph shall not be
eligible for services at discount rates or funding in lieu
of services at such rates under this subsection.
(ii) FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CERTIFICATION.—
Any library that knowingly fails to ensure the use of
its computers in accordance with a certification under
subparagraphs (B) and (C) shall reimburse all funds
and discounts received under this subsection for the
period covered by such certification.
(iii) REMEDY OF NONCOMPLIANCE.—
(I) FAILURE TO SUBMIT.—A library that has
failed to submit a certification under clause (i)
may remedy the failure by submitting the certifi-
cation to which the failure relates. Upon submittal
of such certification, the library shall be eligible
for services at discount rates under this sub-
section.
(II) FAILURE TO COMPLY.—A library that has
failed to comply with a certification as described
in clause (ii) may remedy the failure by ensuring
the use of its computers in accordance with such
certification. Upon submittal to the Commission of
a certification or other appropriate evidence of
such remedy, the library shall be eligible for serv-
ices at discount rates under this subsection.
(7) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection:
(A) ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS.—The term
‘‘elementary and secondary schools’’ means elementary
schools and secondary schools, as defined in section 8101
of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.
(B) HEALTH CARE PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘health care
provider’’ means—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00117 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
118Sec. 254 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(i) post-secondary educational institutions offering
health care instruction, teaching hospitals, and med-
ical schools;
(ii) community health centers or health centers
providing health care to migrants;
(iii) local health departments or agencies;
(iv) community mental health centers;
(v) not-for-profit hospitals;
(vi) rural health clinics;
(vii) skilled nursing facilities (as defined in section
1819(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395i–
3(a))); and
(viii) consortia of health care providers consisting
of one or more entities described in clauses (i) through
(vii).
(C) PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS
USER.—The term ‘‘public institutional telecommunications
user’’ means an elementary or secondary school, a library,
or a health care provider as those terms are defined in this
paragraph.
(D) MINOR.—The term ‘‘minor’’ means any individual
who has not attained the age of 17 years.
(E) OBSCENE.—The term ‘‘obscene’’ has the meaning
given such term in section 1460 of title 18, United States
Code.
(F) CHILD PORNOGRAPHY.—The term ‘‘child pornog-
raphy’’ has the meaning given such term in section 2256
of title 18, United States Code.
(G) HARMFUL TO MINORS.—The term ‘‘harmful to mi-
nors’’ means any picture, image, graphic image file, or
other visual depiction that—
(i) taken as a whole and with respect to minors,
appeals to a prurient interest in nudity, sex, or excre-
tion;(ii) depicts, describes, or represents, in a patently
offensive way with respect to what is suitable for mi-
nors, an actual or simulated sexual act or sexual con-
tact, actual or simulated normal or perverted sexual
acts, or a lewd exhibition of the genitals; and
(iii) taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artis-
tic, political, or scientific value as to minors.
(H) SEXUAL ACT; SEXUAL CONTACT.—The terms ‘‘sexual
act’’ and ‘‘sexual contact’’ have the meanings given such
terms in section 2246 of title 18, United States Code.
(I) TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION MEASURE.—The term
‘‘technology protection measure’’ means a specific tech-
nology that blocks or filters Internet access to the material
covered by a certification under paragraph (5) or (6) to
which such certification relates.
(i) CONSUMER PROTECTION.—The Commission and the States
should ensure that universal service is available at rates that are
just, reasonable, and affordable.
(j) LIFELINE ASSISTANCE.—Nothing in this section shall affect
the collection, distribution, or administration of the Lifeline Assist-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00118 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
119 Sec. 254COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ance Program provided for by the Commission under regulations
set forth in section 69.117 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations,
and other related sections of such title.
(k) SUBSIDY OF COMPETITIVE SERVICES PROHIBITED.—A tele-
communications carrier may not use services that are not competi-
tive to subsidize services that are subject to competition. The Com-
mission, with respect to interstate services, and the States, with re-
spect to intrastate services, shall establish any necessary cost allo-
cation rules, accounting safeguards, and guidelines to ensure that
services included in the definition of universal service bear no more
than a reasonable share of the joint and common costs of facilities
used to provide those services.
(l) I NTERNET SAFETY POLICY REQUIREMENT FOR SCHOOLS AND
LIBRARIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out its responsibilities under
subsection (h), each school or library to which subsection (h)
applies shall—
(A) adopt and implement an Internet safety policy that
addresses—
(i) access by minors to inappropriate matter on
the Internet and World Wide Web;
(ii) the safety and security of minors when using
electronic mail, chat rooms, and other forms of direct
electronic communications;
(iii) unauthorized access, including so-called
‘‘hacking’’, and other unlawful activities by minors on-
line;(iv) unauthorized disclosure, use, and dissemina-
tion of personal identification information regarding
minors; and
(v) measures designed to restrict minors’ access to
materials harmful to minors; and
(B) provide reasonable public notice and hold at least
one public hearing or meeting to address the proposed
Internet safety policy.
(2) LOCAL DETERMINATION OF CONTENT.—A determination
regarding what matter is inappropriate for minors shall be
made by the school board, local educational agency, library, or
other authority responsible for making the determination. No
agency or instrumentality of the United States Government
may— (A) establish criteria for making such determination;
(B) review the determination made by the certifying
school, school board, local educational agency, library, or
other authority; or
(C) consider the criteria employed by the certifying
school, school board, local educational agency, library, or
other authority in the administration of subsection
(h)(1)(B).
(3) AVAILABILITY FOR REVIEW.—Each Internet safety policy
adopted under this subsection shall be made available to the
Commission, upon request of the Commission, by the school,
school board, local educational agency, library, or other author-
ity responsible for adopting such Internet safety policy for pur-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00119 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
120Sec. 255 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
poses of the review of such Internet safety policy by the Com-
mission.
(4) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This subsection shall apply with re-
spect to schools and libraries on or after the date that is 120
days after the date of the enactment of the Children’s Internet
Protection Act.
SEC. 255. ø47 U.S.C. 255¿ ACCESS BY PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
(1) DISABILITY.—The term ‘‘disability’’ has the meaning
given to it by section 3(2)(A) of the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102(2)(A)).
(2) READILY ACHIEVABLE.—The term ‘‘readily achievable’’
has the meaning given to it by section 301(9) of that Act (42
U.S.C. 12181(9)).
(b) MANUFACTURING.—A manufacturer of telecommunications
equipment or customer premises equipment shall ensure that the
equipment is designed, developed, and fabricated to be accessible to
and usable by individuals with disabilities, if readily achievable.
(c) T ELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.—A provider of tele-
communications service shall ensure that the service is accessible
to and usable by individuals with disabilities, if readily achievable.
(d) C OMPATIBILITY.—Whenever the requirements of subsections
(b) and (c) are not readily achievable, such a manufacturer or pro-
vider shall ensure that the equipment or service is compatible with
existing peripheral devices or specialized customer premises equip-
ment commonly used by individuals with disabilities to achieve ac-
cess, if readily achievable.
(e) GUIDELINES.—Within 18 months after the date of enact-
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Architectural and
Transportation Barriers Compliance Board shall develop guidelines
for accessibility of telecommunications equipment and customer
premises equipment in conjunction with the Commission. The
Board shall review and update the guidelines periodically.
(f) NO ADDITIONAL PRIVATE RIGHTS AUTHORIZED.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to authorize any private right of ac-
tion to enforce any requirement of this section or any regulation
thereunder. The Commission shall have exclusive jurisdiction with
respect to any complaint under this section.
SEC. 256. ø47 U.S.C. 256¿ COORDINATION FOR INTERCONNECTIVITY.
(a) PURPOSE.—It is the purpose of this section—
(1) to promote nondiscriminatory accessibility by the
broadest number of users and vendors of communications prod-
ucts and services to public telecommunications networks used
to provide telecommunications service through—
(A) coordinated public telecommunications network
planning and design by telecommunications carriers and
other providers of telecommunications service; and
(B) public telecommunications network
interconnectivity, and interconnectivity of devices with
such networks used to provide telecommunications service;
and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00120 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
121 Sec. 258COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) to ensure the ability of users and information providers
to seamlessly and transparently transmit and receive informa-
tion between and across telecommunications networks.
(b) COMMISSION FUNCTIONS.—In carrying out the purposes of
this section, the Commission—
(1) shall establish procedures for Commission oversight of
coordinated network planning by telecommunications carriers
and other providers of telecommunications service for the effec-
tive and efficient interconnection of public telecommunications
networks used to provide telecommunications service; and
(2) may participate, in a manner consistent with its au-
thority and practice prior to the date of enactment of this sec-
tion, in the development by appropriate industry standards-
setting organizations of public telecommunications network
interconnectivity standards that promote access to—
(A) public telecommunications networks used to pro-
vide telecommunications service;
(B) network capabilities and services by individuals
with disabilities; and
(C) information services by subscribers of rural tele-
phone companies.
(c) COMMISSION’S AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this section shall be
construed as expanding or limiting any authority that the Commis-
sion may have under law in effect before the date of enactment of
the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(d) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘public tele-
communications network interconnectivity’’ means the ability of
two or more public telecommunications networks used to provide
telecommunications service to communicate and exchange informa-
tion without degeneration, and to interact in concert with one an-
other.
SEC. 257. ø47 U.S.C. 257¿ MARKET ENTRY BARRIERS PROCEEDING.
(a) ELIMINATION OF BARRIERS.—Within 15 months after the
date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Com-
mission shall complete a proceeding for the purpose of identifying
and eliminating, by regulations pursuant to its authority under
this Act (other than this section), market entry barriers for entre-
preneurs and other small businesses in the provision and owner-
ship of telecommunications services and information services, or in
the provision of parts or services to providers of telecommuni-
cations services and information services.
(b) NATIONAL POLICY.—In carrying out subsection (a), the Com-
mission shall seek to promote the policies and purposes of this Act
favoring diversity of media voices, vigorous economic competition,
technological advancement, and promotion of the public interest,
convenience, and necessity.
SEC. 258. ø47 U.S.C. 258¿ ILLEGAL CHANGES IN SUBSCRIBER CARRIER
SELECTIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—No telecommunications carrier shall submit
or execute a change in a subscriber’s selection of a provider of tele-
phone exchange service or telephone toll service except in accord-
ance with such verification procedures as the Commission shall
prescribe. Nothing in this section shall preclude any State commis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00121 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
122Sec. 259 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
sion from enforcing such procedures with respect to intrastate serv-
ices.
(b) LIABILITY FOR CHARGES.—Any telecommunications carrier
that violates the verification procedures described in subsection (a)
and that collects charges for telephone exchange service or tele-
phone toll service from a subscriber shall be liable to the carrier
previously selected by the subscriber in an amount equal to all
charges paid by such subscriber after such violation, in accordance
with such procedures as the Commission may prescribe. The rem-
edies provided by this subsection are in addition to any other rem-
edies available by law.
SEC. 259. ø47 U.S.C. 259¿ INFRASTRUCTURE SHARING.
(a) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—The Commission shall prescribe,
within one year after the date of enactment of the Telecommuni-
cations Act of 1996, regulations that require incumbent local ex-
change carriers (as defined in section 251(h)) to make available to
any qualifying carrier such public switched network infrastructure,
technology, information, and telecommunications facilities and
functions as may be requested by such qualifying carrier for the
purpose of enabling such qualifying carrier to provide telecommuni-
cations services, or to provide access to information services, in the
service area in which such qualifying carrier has requested and ob-
tained designation as an eligible telecommunications carrier under
section 214(e).
(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF REGULATIONS.—The regulations
prescribed by the Commission pursuant to this section shall—
(1) not require a local exchange carrier to which this sec-
tion applies to take any action that is economically unreason-
able or that is contrary to the public interest;
(2) permit, but shall not require, the joint ownership or op-
eration of public switched network infrastructure and services
by or among such local exchange carrier and a qualifying car-
rier;
(3) ensure that such local exchange carrier will not be
treated by the Commission or any State as a common carrier
for hire or as offering common carrier services with respect to
any infrastructure, technology, information, facilities, or func-
tions made available to a qualifying carrier in accordance with
regulations issued pursuant to this section;
(4) ensure that such local exchange carrier makes such in-
frastructure, technology, information, facilities, or functions
available to a qualifying carrier on just and reasonable terms
and conditions that permit such qualifying carrier to fully ben-
efit from the economies of scale and scope of such local ex-
change carrier, as determined in accordance with guidelines
prescribed by the Commission in regulations issued pursuant
to this section;
(5) establish conditions that promote cooperation between
local exchange carriers to which this section applies and quali-
fying carriers;
(6) not require a local exchange carrier to which this sec-
tion applies to engage in any infrastructure sharing agreement
for any services or access which are to be provided or offered
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00122 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
123 Sec. 260COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
to consumers by the qualifying carrier in such local exchange
carrier’s telephone exchange area; and
(7) require that such local exchange carrier file with the
Commission or State for public inspection, any tariffs, con-
tracts, or other arrangements showing the rates, terms, and
conditions under which such carrier is making available public
switched network infrastructure and functions under this sec-
tion.
(c) INFORMATION CONCERNING DEPLOYMENT OF NEW SERVICES
AND EQUIPMENT.—A local exchange carrier to which this section
applies that has entered into an infrastructure sharing agreement
under this section shall provide to each party to such agreement
timely information on the planned deployment of telecommuni-
cations services and equipment, including any software or upgrades
of software integral to the use or operation of such telecommuni-
cations equipment.
(d) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘quali-
fying carrier’’ means a telecommunications carrier that—
(1) lacks economies of scale or scope, as determined in ac-
cordance with regulations prescribed by the Commission pur-
suant to this section; and
(2) offers telephone exchange service, exchange access, and
any other service that is included in universal service, to all
consumers without preference throughout the service area for
which such carrier has been designated as an eligible tele-
communications carrier under section 214(e).
SEC. 260. ø47 U.S.C. 260¿ PROVISION OF TELEMESSAGING SERVICE.
(a) NONDISCRIMINATION SAFEGUARDS.—Any local exchange car-
rier subject to the requirements of section 251(c) that provides tele-
messaging service—
(1) shall not subsidize its telemessaging service directly or
indirectly from its telephone exchange service or its exchange
access; and
(2) shall not prefer or discriminate in favor of its telemes-
saging service operations in its provision of telecommuni-
cations services.
(b) EXPEDITED CONSIDERATION OF COMPLAINTS.—The Commis-
sion shall establish procedures for the receipt and review of com-
plaints concerning violations of subsection (a) or the regulations
thereunder that result in material financial harm to a provider of
telemessaging service. Such procedures shall ensure that the Com-
mission will make a final determination with respect to any such
complaint within 120 days after receipt of the complaint. If the
complaint contains an appropriate showing that the alleged viola-
tion occurred, the Commission shall, within 60 days after receipt
of the complaint, order the local exchange carrier and any affiliates
to cease engaging in such violation pending such final determina-
tion.(c) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘telemes-
saging service’’ means voice mail and voice storage and retrieval
services, any live operator services used to record, transcribe, or
relay messages (other than telecommunications relay services), and
any ancillary services offered in combination with these services.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00123 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
124Sec. 261 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 261. ø47 U.S.C. 261¿ EFFECT ON OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
(a) COMMISSION REGULATIONS.—Nothing in this part shall be
construed to prohibit the Commission from enforcing regulations
prescribed prior to the date of enactment of the Telecommuni-
cations Act of 1996 in fulfilling the requirements of this part, to the
extent that such regulations are not inconsistent with the provi-
sions of this part.
(b) EXISTING STATE REGULATIONS.—Nothing in this part shall
be construed to prohibit any State commission from enforcing regu-
lations prescribed prior to the date of enactment of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996, or from prescribing regulations after
such date of enactment, in fulfilling the requirements of this part,
if such regulations are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
part.
(c) ADDITIONAL STATE REQUIREMENTS.—Nothing in this part
precludes a State from imposing requirements on a telecommuni-
cations carrier for intrastate services that are necessary to further
competition in the provision of telephone exchange service or ex-
change access, as long as the State’s requirements are not incon-
sistent with this part or the Commission’s regulations to imple-
ment this part.
SEC. 262. ø47 U.S.C. 262¿ ENSURING THE INTEGRITY OF VOICE COMMU-
NICATIONS.
(a) REGISTRATION AND COMPLIANCE BY INTERMEDIATE PRO-
VIDERS.—An intermediate provider that offers or holds itself out as
offering the capability to transmit covered voice communications
from one destination to another and that charges any rate to any
other entity (including an affiliated entity) for the transmission
shall—
(1) register with the Commission; and
(2) comply with the service quality standards for such
transmission to be established by the Commission under sub-
section (c)(1)(B).
(b) R EQUIRED USE OF REGISTERED INTERMEDIATE PROVIDERS.—
A covered provider may not use an intermediate provider to trans-
mit covered voice communications unless such intermediate pro-
vider is registered under subsection (a)(1).
(c) COMMISSION RULES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) REGISTRY.—Not later than 180 days after the date
of enactment of this section, the Commission shall promul-
gate rules to establish a registry to record registrations
under subsection (a)(1).
(B) SERVICE QUALITY STANDARDS.—Not later than 1
year after the date of enactment of this section, the Com-
mission shall promulgate rules to establish service quality
standards for the transmission of covered voice commu-
nications by intermediate providers.
(2) REQUIREMENTS.—In promulgating the rules required by
paragraph (1), the Commission shall—
(A) ensure the integrity of the transmission of covered
voice communications to all customers in the United
States; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00124 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
125 Sec. 262COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination
among areas of the United States in the delivery of cov-
ered voice communications.
(d) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF REGISTRY.—The Commission shall
make the registry established under subsection (c)(1)(A) publicly
available on the website of the Commission.
(e) SCOPE OF APPLICATION.—The requirements of this section
shall apply regardless of the format by which any communication
or service is provided, the protocol or format by which the trans-
mission of such communication or service is achieved, or the regu-
latory classification of such communication or service.
(f) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section shall be
construed to affect the regulatory classification of any communica-
tion or service.
(g) EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.—Nothing in this section shall be
construed to preempt or expand the authority of a State public util-
ity commission or other relevant State agency to collect data, or in-
vestigate and enforce State law and regulations, regarding the com-
pletion of intrastate voice communications, regardless of the format
by which any communication or service is provided, the protocol or
format by which the transmission of such communication or service
is achieved, or the regulatory classification of such communication
or service.
(h) EXCEPTION.—The requirement under subsection (a)(2) to
comply with the service quality standards established under sub-
section (c)(1)(B) shall not apply to a covered provider that—
(1) on or before the date that is 1 year after the date of
enactment of this section, has certified as a Safe Harbor pro-
vider under section 64.2107(a) of title 47, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, or any successor regulation; and
(2) continues to meet the requirements under such section
64.2107(a).
(i) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COVERED PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘covered provider’’ has
the meaning given the term in section 64.2101 of title 47, Code
of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto.
(2) COVERED VOICE COMMUNICATION.—The term ‘‘covered
voice communication’’ means a voice communication (including
any related signaling information) that is generated—
(A) from the placement of a call from a connection
using a North American Numbering Plan resource or a call
placed to a connection using such a numbering resource;
and
(B) through any service provided by a covered pro-
vider.
(3) I NTERMEDIATE PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘intermediate pro-
vider’’ means any entity that—
(A) enters into a business arrangement with a covered
provider or other intermediate provider for the specific
purpose of carrying, routing, or transmitting voice traffic
that is generated from the placement of a call placed—
(i) from an end user connection using a North
American Numbering Plan resource; or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00125 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
126Sec. 271 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) to an end user connection using such a num-
bering resource; and
(B) does not itself, either directly or in conjunction
with an affiliate, serve as a covered provider in the context
of originating or terminating a given call.
PART III—SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING
BELL OPERATING COMPANIES
SEC. 271. ø47 U.S.C. 271¿ BELL OPERATING COMPANY ENTRY INTO
INTERLATA SERVICES.
(a) GENERAL LIMITATION.—Neither a Bell operating company,
nor any affiliate of a Bell operating company, may provide
interLATA services except as provided in this section.
(b) INTERLATA SERVICES TO WHICH THIS SECTION APPLIES.—
(1) IN-REGION SERVICES.—A Bell operating company, or
any affiliate of that Bell operating company, may provide
interLATA services originating in any of its in-region States
(as defined in subsection (i)) if the Commission approves the
application of such company for such State under subsection
(d)(3).
(2) OUT-OF-REGION SERVICES.—A Bell operating company,
or any affiliate of that Bell operating company, may provide
interLATA services originating outside its in-region States
after the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of
1996, subject to subsection (j).
(3) INCIDENTAL INTERLATA SERVICES.—A Bell operating
company, or any affiliate of a Bell operating company, may
provide incidental interLATA services (as defined in subsection
(g)) originating in any State after the date of enactment of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(4) TERMINATION.—Nothing in this section prohibits a Bell
operating company or any of its affiliates from providing termi-
nation for interLATA services, subject to subsection (j).
(c) REQUIREMENTS FOR PROVIDING CERTAIN IN-REGION
INTERLATA SERVICES.—
(1) AGREEMENT OR STATEMENT.—A Bell operating company
meets the requirements of this paragraph if it meets the re-
quirements of subparagraph (A) or subparagraph (B) of this
paragraph for each State for which the authorization is sought.
(A) PRESENCE OF A FACILITIES-BASED COMPETITOR.—A
Bell operating company meets the requirements of this
subparagraph if it has entered into one or more binding
agreements that have been approved under section 252
specifying the terms and conditions under which the Bell
operating company is providing access and interconnection
to its network facilities for the network facilities of one or
more unaffiliated competing providers of telephone ex-
change service (as defined in section 3(47)(A), but exclud-
ing exchange access) to residential and business sub-
scribers. For the purpose of this subparagraph, such tele-
phone exchange service may be offered by such competing
providers either exclusively over their own telephone ex-
change service facilities or predominantly over their own
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00126 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
127 Sec. 271COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
telephone exchange service facilities in combination with
the resale of the telecommunications services of another
carrier. For the purpose of this subparagraph, services pro-
vided pursuant to subpart K of part 22 of the Commis-
sion’s regulations (47 C.F.R. 22.901 et seq.) shall not be
considered to be telephone exchange services.
(B) FAILURE TO REQUEST ACCESS.—A Bell operating
company meets the requirements of this subparagraph if,
after 10 months after the date of enactment of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996, no such provider has re-
quested the access and interconnection described in sub-
paragraph (A) before the date which is 3 months before the
date the company makes its application under subsection
(d)(1), and a statement of the terms and conditions that
the company generally offers to provide such access and
interconnection has been approved or permitted to take ef-
fect by the State commission under section 252(f). For pur-
poses of this subparagraph, a Bell operating company shall
be considered not to have received any request for access
and interconnection if the State commission of such State
certifies that the only provider or providers making such
a request have (i) failed to negotiate in good faith as re-
quired by section 252, or (ii) violated the terms of an
agreement approved under section 252 by the provider’s
failure to comply, within a reasonable period of time, with
the implementation schedule contained in such agreement.
(2) SPECIFIC INTERCONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) AGREEMENT REQUIRED.—A Bell operating company
meets the requirements of this paragraph if, within the
State for which the authorization is sought—
(i)(I) such company is providing access and inter-
connection pursuant to one or more agreements de-
scribed in paragraph (1)(A), or
(II) such company is generally offering access and
interconnection pursuant to a statement described in
paragraph (1)(B), and
(ii) such access and interconnection meets the re-
quirements of subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
(B) COMPETITIVE CHECKLIST.—Access or interconnec-
tion provided or generally offered by a Bell operating com-
pany to other telecommunications carriers meets the re-
quirements of this subparagraph if such access and inter-
connection includes each of the following:
(i) Interconnection in accordance with the require-
ments of sections 251(c)(2) and 252(d)(1).
(ii) Nondiscriminatory access to network elements
in accordance with the requirements of sections
251(c)(3) and 252(d)(1).
(iii) Nondiscriminatory access to the poles, ducts,
conduits, and rights-of-way owned or controlled by the
Bell operating company at just and reasonable rates in
accordance with the requirements of section 224.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00127 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
128Sec. 271 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(iv) Local loop transmission from the central office
to the customer’s premises, unbundled from local
switching or other services.
(v) Local transport from the trunk side of a
wireline local exchange carrier switch unbundled from
switching or other services.
(vi) Local switching unbundled from transport,
local loop transmission, or other services.
(vii) Nondiscriminatory access to—
(I) 911 and E911 services;
(II) directory assistance services to allow the
other carrier’s customers to obtain telephone num-
bers; and
(III) operator call completion services.
(viii) White pages directory listings for customers
of the other carrier’s telephone exchange service.
(ix) Until the date by which telecommunications
numbering administration guidelines, plan, or rules
are established, nondiscriminatory access to telephone
numbers for assignment to the other carrier’s tele-
phone exchange service customers. After that date,
compliance with such guidelines, plan, or rules.
(x) Nondiscriminatory access to databases and as-
sociated signaling necessary for call routing and com-
pletion.
(xi) Until the date by which the Commission
issues regulations pursuant to section 251 to require
number portability, interim telecommunications num-
ber portability through remote call forwarding, direct
inward dialing trunks, or other comparable arrange-
ments, with as little impairment of functioning, qual-
ity, reliability, and convenience as possible. After that
date, full compliance with such regulations.
(xii) Nondiscriminatory access to such services or
information as are necessary to allow the requesting
carrier to implement local dialing parity in accordance
with the requirements of section 251(b)(3).
(xiii) Reciprocal compensation arrangements in ac-
cordance with the requirements of section 252(d)(2).
(xiv) Telecommunications services are available
for resale in accordance with the requirements of sec-
tions 251(c)(4) and 252(d)(3).
(d) ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.—
(1) APPLICATION TO COMMISSION.—On and after the date of
enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, a Bell oper-
ating company or its affiliate may apply to the Commission for
authorization to provide interLATA services originating in any
in-region State. The application shall identify each State for
which the authorization is sought.
(2) CONSULTATION.—
(A) CONSULTATION WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL.—
The Commission shall notify the Attorney General prompt-
ly of any application under paragraph (1). Before making
any determination under this subsection, the Commission
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00128 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
129 Sec. 271COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
shall consult with the Attorney General, and if the Attor-
ney General submits any comments in writing, such com-
ments shall be included in the record of the Commission’s
decision. In consulting with and submitting comments to
the Commission under this paragraph, the Attorney Gen-
eral shall provide to the Commission an evaluation of the
application using any standard the Attorney General con-
siders appropriate. The Commission shall give substantial
weight to the Attorney General’s evaluation, but such eval-
uation shall not have any preclusive effect on any Commis-
sion decision under paragraph (3).
(B) CONSULTATION WITH STATE COMMISSIONS.—Before
making any determination under this subsection, the Com-
mission shall consult with the State commission of any
State that is the subject of the application in order to
verify the compliance of the Bell operating company with
the requirements of subsection (c).
(3) DETERMINATION.—Not later than 90 days after receiv-
ing an application under paragraph (1), the Commission shall
issue a written determination approving or denying the author-
ization requested in the application for each State. The Com-
mission shall not approve the authorization requested in an
application submitted under paragraph (1) unless it finds
that—
(A) the petitioning Bell operating company has met
the requirements of subsection (c)(1) and—
(i) with respect to access and interconnection pro-
vided pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(A), has fully imple-
mented the competitive checklist in subsection
(c)(2)(B); or
(ii) with respect to access and interconnection gen-
erally offered pursuant to a statement under sub-
section (c)(1)(B), such statement offers all of the items
included in the competitive checklist in subsection
(c)(2)(B);
(B) the requested authorization will be carried out in
accordance with the requirements of section 272; and
(C) the requested authorization is consistent with the
public interest, convenience, and necessity.
The Commission shall state the basis for its approval or denial
of the application.
(4) LIMITATION ON COMMISSION.—The Commission may
not, by rule or otherwise, limit or extend the terms used in the
competitive checklist set forth in subsection (c)(2)(B).
(5) PUBLICATION.—Not later than 10 days after issuing a
determination under paragraph (3), the Commission shall pub-
lish in the Federal Register a brief description of the deter-
mination.
(6) ENFORCEMENT OF CONDITIONS.—
(A) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—If at any time after the
approval of an application under paragraph (3), the Com-
mission determines that a Bell operating company has
ceased to meet any of the conditions required for such ap-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00129 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
130Sec. 271 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
proval, the Commission may, after notice and opportunity
for a hearing—
(i) issue an order to such company to correct the
deficiency;
(ii) impose a penalty on such company pursuant to
title V; or
(iii) suspend or revoke such approval.
(B) RECEIPT AND REVIEW OF COMPLAINTS.—The Com-
mission shall establish procedures for the review of com-
plaints concerning failures by Bell operating companies to
meet conditions required for approval under paragraph (3).
Unless the parties otherwise agree, the Commission shall
act on such complaint within 90 days.
(e) LIMITATIONS.—
(1) JOINT MARKETING OF LOCAL AND LONG DISTANCE SERV-
ICES.—Until a Bell operating company is authorized pursuant
to subsection (d) to provide interLATA services in an in-region
State, or until 36 months have passed since the date of enact-
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, whichever is ear-
lier, a telecommunications carrier that serves greater than 5
percent of the Nation’s presubscribed access lines may not
jointly market in such State telephone exchange service ob-
tained from such company pursuant to section 251(c)(4) with
interLATA services offered by that telecommunications carrier.
(2) INTRALATA TOLL DIALING PARITY.—
(A) PROVISION REQUIRED.—A Bell operating company
granted authority to provide interLATA services under
subsection (d) shall provide intraLATA toll dialing parity
throughout that State coincident with its exercise of that
authority.
(B) LIMITATION.—Except for single-LATA States and
States that have issued an order by December 19, 1995, re-
quiring a Bell operating company to implement intraLATA
toll dialing parity, a State may not require a Bell oper-
ating company to implement intraLATA toll dialing parity
in that State before a Bell operating company has been
granted authority under this section to provide interLATA
services originating in that State or before 3 years after
the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of
1996, whichever is earlier. Nothing in this subparagraph
precludes a State from issuing an order requiring
intraLATA toll dialing parity in that State prior to either
such date so long as such order does not take effect until
after the earlier of either such dates.
(f) EXCEPTION FOR PREVIOUSLY AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—Nei-
ther subsection (a) nor section 273 shall prohibit a Bell operating
company or affiliate from engaging, at any time after the date of
enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, in any activity
to the extent authorized by, and subject to the terms and condi-
tions contained in, an order entered by the United States District
Court for the District of Columbia pursuant to section VII or
VIII(C) of the AT&T Consent Decree if such order was entered on
or before such date of enactment, to the extent such order is not
reversed or vacated on appeal. Nothing in this subsection shall be
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00130 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
131 Sec. 271COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
construed to limit, or to impose terms or conditions on, an activity
in which a Bell operating company is otherwise authorized to en-
gage under any other provision of this section.
(g) DEFINITION OF INCIDENTAL INTERLATA SERVICES.—For
purposes of this section, the term ‘‘incidental interLATA services’’
means the interLATA provision by a Bell operating company or its
affiliate—
(1)(A) of audio programming, video programming, or other
programming services to subscribers to such services of such
company or affiliate;
(B) of the capability for interaction by such subscribers to
select or respond to such audio programming, video program-
ming, or other programming services;
(C) to distributors of audio programming or video program-
ming that such company or affiliate owns or controls, or is li-
censed by the copyright owner of such programming (or by an
assignee of such owner) to distribute; or
(D) of alarm monitoring services;
(2) of two-way interactive video services or Internet serv-
ices over dedicated facilities to or for elementary and secondary
schools as defined in section 254(h)(5);
(3) of commercial mobile services in accordance with sec-
tion 332(c) of this Act and with the regulations prescribed by
the Commission pursuant to paragraph (8) of such section;
(4) of a service that permits a customer that is located in
one LATA to retrieve stored information from, or file informa-
tion for storage in, information storage facilities of such com-
pany that are located in another LATA;
(5) of signaling information used in connection with the
provision of telephone exchange services or exchange access by
a local exchange carrier; or
(6) of network control signaling information to, and receipt
of such signaling information from, common carriers offering
interLATA services at any location within the area in which
such Bell operating company provides telephone exchange
services or exchange access.
(h) LIMITATIONS.—The provisions of subsection (g) are intended
to be narrowly construed. The interLATA services provided under
subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of subsection (g)(1) are limited to
those interLATA transmissions incidental to the provision by a Bell
operating company or its affiliate of video, audio, and other pro-
gramming services that the company or its affiliate is engaged in
providing to the public. The Commission shall ensure that the pro-
vision of services authorized under subsection (g) by a Bell oper-
ating company or its affiliate will not adversely affect telephone ex-
change service ratepayers or competition in any telecommuni-
cations market.
(i) ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
(1) IN-REGION STATE.—The term ‘‘in-region State’’ means a
State in which a Bell operating company or any of its affiliates
was authorized to provide wireline telephone exchange service
pursuant to the reorganization plan approved under the AT&T
Consent Decree, as in effect on the day before the date of en-
actment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00131 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
132Sec. 272 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) AUDIO PROGRAMMING SERVICES.—The term ‘‘audio pro-
gramming services’’ means programming provided by, or gen-
erally considered to be comparable to programming provided
by, a radio broadcast station.
(3) VIDEO PROGRAMMING SERVICES; OTHER PROGRAMMING
SERVICES.—The terms ‘‘video programming service’’ and ‘‘other
programming services’’ have the same meanings as such terms
have under section 602 of this Act.
(j) CERTAIN SERVICE APPLICATIONS TREATED AS IN-REGION
SERVICE APPLICATIONS.—For purposes of this section, a Bell oper-
ating company application to provide 800 service, private line serv-
ice, or their equivalents that—
(1) terminate in an in-region State of that Bell operating
company, and
(2) allow the called party to determine the interLATA car-
rier,
shall be considered an in-region service subject to the requirements
of subsection (b)(1).
SEC. 272. ø47 U.S.C. 272¿ SEPARATE AFFILIATE; SAFEGUARDS.
(a) SEPARATE AFFILIATE REQUIRED FOR COMPETITIVE ACTIVI-
TIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A Bell operating company (including any
affiliate) which is a local exchange carrier that is subject to the
requirements of section 251(c) may not provide any service de-
scribed in paragraph (2) unless it provides that service through
one or more affiliates that—
(A) are separate from any operating company entity
that is subject to the requirements of section 251(c); and
(B) meet the requirements of subsection (b).
(2) SERVICES FOR WHICH A SEPARATE AFFILIATE IS RE-
QUIRED.—The services for which a separate affiliate is required
by paragraph (1) are:
(A) Manufacturing activities (as defined in section
273(h)).
(B) Origination of interLATA telecommunications serv-
ices, other than—
(i) incidental interLATA services described in
paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), and (6) of section 271(g);
(ii) out-of-region services described in section
271(b)(2); or
(iii) previously authorized activities described in
section 271(f).
(C) InterLATA information services, other than elec-
tronic publishing (as defined in section 274(h)) and alarm
monitoring services (as defined in section 275(e)).
(b) S TRUCTURAL AND TRANSACTIONAL REQUIREMENTS.—The
separate affiliate required by this section—
(1) shall operate independently from the Bell operating
company;
(2) shall maintain books, records, and accounts in the
manner prescribed by the Commission which shall be separate
from the books, records, and accounts maintained by the Bell
operating company of which it is an affiliate;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00132 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
133 Sec. 272COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(3) shall have separate officers, directors, and employees
from the Bell operating company of which it is an affiliate;
(4) may not obtain credit under any arrangement that
would permit a creditor, upon default, to have recourse to the
assets of the Bell operating company; and
(5) shall conduct all transactions with the Bell operating
company of which it is an affiliate on an arm’s length basis
with any such transactions reduced to writing and available for
public inspection.
(c) NONDISCRIMINATION SAFEGUARDS.—In its dealings with its
affiliate described in subsection (a), a Bell operating company—
(1) may not discriminate between that company or affiliate
and any other entity in the provision or procurement of goods,
services, facilities, and information, or in the establishment of
standards; and
(2) shall account for all transactions with an affiliate de-
scribed in subsection (a) in accordance with accounting prin-
ciples designated or approved by the Commission.
(d) BIENNIAL AUDIT.—
(1) GENERAL REQUIREMENT.—A company required to oper-
ate a separate affiliate under this section shall obtain and pay
for a joint Federal/State audit every 2 years conducted by an
independent auditor to determine whether such company has
complied with this section and the regulations promulgated
under this section, and particularly whether such company has
complied with the separate accounting requirements under
subsection (b).
(2) RESULTS SUBMITTED TO COMMISSION; STATE COMMIS-
SIONS.—The auditor described in paragraph (1) shall submit
the results of the audit to the Commission and to the State
commission of each State in which the company audited pro-
vides service, which shall make such results available for pub-
lic inspection. Any party may submit comments on the final
audit report.
(3) ACCESS TO DOCUMENTS.—For purposes of conducting
audits and reviews under this subsection—
(A) the independent auditor, the Commission, and the
State commission shall have access to the financial ac-
counts and records of each company and of its affiliates
necessary to verify transactions conducted with that com-
pany that are relevant to the specific activities permitted
under this section and that are necessary for the regula-
tion of rates;
(B) the Commission and the State commission shall
have access to the working papers and supporting mate-
rials of any auditor who performs an audit under this sec-
tion; and
(C) the State commission shall implement appropriate
procedures to ensure the protection of any proprietary in-
formation submitted to it under this section.
(e) FULFILLMENT OF CERTAIN REQUESTS.—A Bell operating
company and an affiliate that is subject to the requirements of sec-
tion 251(c)—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00133 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
134Sec. 272 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) shall fulfill any requests from an unaffiliated entity for
telephone exchange service and exchange access within a pe-
riod no longer than the period in which it provides such tele-
phone exchange service and exchange access to itself or to its
affiliates;
(2) shall not provide any facilities, services, or information
concerning its provision of exchange access to the affiliate de-
scribed in subsection (a) unless such facilities, services, or in-
formation are made available to other providers of interLATA
services in that market on the same terms and conditions;
(3) shall charge the affiliate described in subsection (a), or
impute to itself (if using the access for its provision of its own
services), an amount for access to its telephone exchange serv-
ice and exchange access that is no less than the amount
charged to any unaffiliated interexchange carriers for such
service; and
(4) may provide any interLATA or intraLATA facilities or
services to its interLATA affiliate if such services or facilities
are made available to all carriers at the same rates and on the
same terms and conditions, and so long as the costs are appro-
priately allocated.
(f) SUNSET.—
(1) MANUFACTURING AND LONG DISTANCE.—The provisions
of this section (other than subsection (e)) shall cease to apply
with respect to the manufacturing activities or the interLATA
telecommunications services of a Bell operating company 3
years after the date such Bell operating company or any Bell
operating company affiliate is authorized to provide interLATA
telecommunications services under section 271(d), unless the
Commission extends such 3-year period by rule or order.
(2) INTERLATA INFORMATION SERVICES.—The provisions of
this section (other than subsection (e)) shall cease to apply
with respect to the interLATA information services of a Bell
operating company 4 years after the date of enactment of the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, unless the Commission ex-
tends such 4-year period by rule or order.
(3) PRESERVATION OF EXISTING AUTHORITY.—Nothing in
this subsection shall be construed to limit the authority of the
Commission under any other section of this Act to prescribe
safeguards consistent with the public interest, convenience,
and necessity.
(g) JOINT MARKETING.—
(1) A FFILIATE SALES OF TELEPHONE EXCHANGE SERVICES.—
A Bell operating company affiliate required by this section may
not market or sell telephone exchange services provided by the
Bell operating company unless that company permits other en-
tities offering the same or similar service to market and sell
its telephone exchange services.
(2) BELL OPERATING COMPANY SALES OF AFFILIATE SERV-
ICES.—A Bell operating company may not market or sell
interLATA service provided by an affiliate required by this sec-
tion within any of its in-region States until such company is
authorized to provide interLATA services in such State under
section 271(d).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
135 Sec. 273COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(3) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—The joint marketing and sale
of services permitted under this subsection shall not be consid-
ered to violate the nondiscrimination provisions of subsection
(c).
(h) TRANSITION.—With respect to any activity in which a Bell
operating company is engaged on the date of enactment of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996, such company shall have one year
from such date of enactment to comply with the requirements of
this section.
SEC. 273. ø47 U.S.C. 273¿ MANUFACTURING BY BELL OPERATING COM-
PANIES.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—A Bell operating company may manufac-
ture and provide telecommunications equipment, and manufacture
customer premises equipment, if the Commission authorizes that
Bell operating company or any Bell operating company affiliate to
provide interLATA services under section 271(d), subject to the re-
quirements of this section and the regulations prescribed there-
under, except that neither a Bell operating company nor any of its
affiliates may engage in such manufacturing in conjunction with a
Bell operating company not so affiliated or any of its affiliates.
(b) COLLABORATION; RESEARCH AND ROYALTY AGREEMENTS.—
(1) COLLABORATION.—Subsection (a) shall not prohibit a
Bell operating company from engaging in close collaboration
with any manufacturer of customer premises equipment or
telecommunications equipment during the design and develop-
ment of hardware, software, or combinations thereof related to
such equipment.
(2) CERTAIN RESEARCH ARRANGEMENTS; ROYALTY AGREE-
MENTS.—Subsection (a) shall not prohibit a Bell operating com-
pany from—
(A) engaging in research activities related to manufac-
turing, and
(B) entering into royalty agreements with manufactur-
ers of telecommunications equipment.
(c) I NFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) INFORMATION ON PROTOCOLS AND TECHNICAL REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Each Bell operating company shall, in accordance
with regulations prescribed by the Commission, maintain and
file with the Commission full and complete information with
respect to the protocols and technical requirements for connec-
tion with and use of its telephone exchange service facilities.
Each such company shall report promptly to the Commission
any material changes or planned changes to such protocols and
requirements, and the schedule for implementation of such
changes or planned changes.
(2) D ISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION.—A Bell operating com-
pany shall not disclose any information required to be filed
under paragraph (1) unless that information has been filed
promptly, as required by regulation by the Commission.
(3) ACCESS BY COMPETITORS TO INFORMATION.—The Com-
mission may prescribe such additional regulations under this
subsection as may be necessary to ensure that manufacturers
have access to the information with respect to the protocols
and technical requirements for connection with and use of tele-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00135 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
136Sec. 273 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
phone exchange service facilities that a Bell operating company
makes available to any manufacturing affiliate or any unaffili-
ated manufacturer.
(4) PLANNING INFORMATION.—Each Bell operating company
shall provide, to interconnecting carriers providing telephone
exchange service, timely information on the planned deploy-
ment of telecommunications equipment.
(d) MANUFACTURING LIMITATIONS FOR STANDARD-SETTING OR-
GANIZATIONS.—
(1) APPLICATION TO BELL COMMUNICATIONS RESEARCH OR
MANUFACTURERS.—Bell Communications Research, Inc., or any
successor entity or affiliate—
(A) shall not be considered a Bell operating company
or a successor or assign of a Bell operating company at
such time as it is no longer an affiliate of any Bell oper-
ating company; and
(B) notwithstanding paragraph (3), shall not engage in
manufacturing telecommunications equipment or customer
premises equipment as long as it is an affiliate of more
than 1 otherwise unaffiliated Bell operating company or
successor or assign of any such company.
Nothing in this subsection prohibits Bell Communications Re-
search, Inc., or any successor entity, from engaging in any ac-
tivity in which it is lawfully engaged on the date of enactment
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. Nothing provided in
this subsection shall render Bell Communications Research,
Inc., or any successor entity, a common carrier under title II
of this Act. Nothing in this subsection restricts any manufac-
turer from engaging in any activity in which it is lawfully en-
gaged on the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act
of 1996.
(2) PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.—Any entity which estab-
lishes standards for telecommunications equipment or cus-
tomer premises equipment, or generic network requirements
for such equipment, or certifies telecommunications equipment
or customer premises equipment, shall be prohibited from re-
leasing or otherwise using any proprietary information, des-
ignated as such by its owner, in its possession as a result of
such activity, for any purpose other than purposes authorized
in writing by the owner of such information, even after such
entity ceases to be so engaged.
(3) MANUFACTURING SAFEGUARDS.—(A) Except as prohib-
ited in paragraph (1), and subject to paragraph (6), any entity
which certifies telecommunications equipment or customer
premises equipment manufactured by an unaffiliated entity
shall only manufacture a particular class of telecommuni-
cations equipment or customer premises equipment for which
it is undertaking or has undertaken, during the previous 18
months, certification activity for such class of equipment
through a separate affiliate.
(B) Such separate affiliate shall—
(i) maintain books, records, and accounts separate
from those of the entity that certifies such equipment, con-
sistent with generally acceptable accounting principles;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00136 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
137 Sec. 273COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) not engage in any joint manufacturing activities
with such entity; and
(iii) have segregated facilities and separate employees
with such entity.
(C) Such entity that certifies such equipment shall—
(i) not discriminate in favor of its manufacturing affil-
iate in the establishment of standards, generic require-
ments, or product certification;
(ii) not disclose to the manufacturing affiliate any pro-
prietary information that has been received at any time
from an unaffiliated manufacturer, unless authorized in
writing by the owner of the information; and
(iii) not permit any employee engaged in product cer-
tification for telecommunications equipment or customer
premises equipment to engage jointly in sales or mar-
keting of any such equipment with the affiliated manufac-
turer.
(4) STANDARD-SETTING ENTITIES.—Any entity that is not an
accredited standards development organization and that estab-
lishes industry-wide standards for telecommunications equip-
ment or customer premises equipment, or industry-wide ge-
neric network requirements for such equipment, or that cer-
tifies telecommunications equipment or customer premises
equipment manufactured by an unaffiliated entity, shall—
(A) establish and publish any industry-wide standard
for, industry-wide generic requirement for, or any substan-
tial modification of an existing industry-wide standard or
industry-wide generic requirement for, telecommunications
equipment or customer premises equipment only in compli-
ance with the following procedure—
(i) such entity shall issue a public notice of its con-
sideration of a proposed industry-wide standard or in-
dustry-wide generic requirement;
(ii) such entity shall issue a public invitation to in-
terested industry parties to fund and participate in
such efforts on a reasonable and nondiscriminatory
basis, administered in such a manner as not to unrea-
sonably exclude any interested industry party;
(iii) such entity shall publish a text for comment
by such parties as have agreed to participate in the
process pursuant to clause (ii), provide such parties a
full opportunity to submit comments, and respond to
comments from such parties;
(iv) such entity shall publish a final text of the in-
dustry-wide standard or industry-wide generic require-
ment, including the comments in their entirety, of any
funding party which requests to have its comments so
published; and
(v) such entity shall attempt, prior to publishing
a text for comment, to agree with the funding parties
as a group on a mutually satisfactory dispute resolu-
tion process which such parties shall utilize as their
sole recourse in the event of a dispute on technical
issues as to which there is disagreement between any
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00137 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
138Sec. 273 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
funding party and the entity conducting such activi-
ties, except that if no dispute resolution process is
agreed to by all the parties, a funding party may uti-
lize the dispute resolution procedures established pur-
suant to paragraph (5) of this subsection;
(B) engage in product certification for telecommuni-
cations equipment or customer premises equipment manu-
factured by unaffiliated entities only if—
(i) such activity is performed pursuant to pub-
lished criteria;
(ii) such activity is performed pursuant to
auditable criteria; and
(iii) such activity is performed pursuant to avail-
able industry-accepted testing methods and standards,
where applicable, unless otherwise agreed upon by the
parties funding and performing such activity;
(C) not undertake any actions to monopolize or at-
tempt to monopolize the market for such services; and
(D) not preferentially treat its own telecommuni-
cations equipment or customer premises equipment, or
that of its affiliate, over that of any other entity in estab-
lishing and publishing industry-wide standards or indus-
try-wide generic requirements for, and in certification of,
telecommunications equipment and customer premises
equipment.
(5) ALTERNATE DISPUTE RESOLUTION.—Within 90 days
after the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of
1996, the Commission shall prescribe a dispute resolution proc-
ess to be utilized in the event that a dispute resolution process
is not agreed upon by all the parties when establishing and
publishing any industry-wide standard or industry-wide ge-
neric requirement for telecommunications equipment or cus-
tomer premises equipment, pursuant to paragraph (4)(A)(v).
The Commission shall not establish itself as a party to the dis-
pute resolution process. Such dispute resolution process shall
permit any funding party to resolve a dispute with the entity
conducting the activity that significantly affects such funding
party’s interests, in an open, nondiscriminatory, and unbiased
fashion, within 30 days after the filing of such dispute. Such
disputes may be filed within 15 days after the date the funding
party receives a response to its comments from the entity con-
ducting the activity. The Commission shall establish penalties
to be assessed for delays caused by referral of frivolous dis-
putes to the dispute resolution process.
(6) S UNSET.—The requirements of paragraphs (3) and (4)
shall terminate for the particular relevant activity when the
Commission determines that there are alternative sources of
industry-wide standards, industry-wide generic requirements,
or product certification for a particular class of telecommuni-
cations equipment or customer premises equipment available
in the United States. Alternative sources shall be deemed to
exist when such sources provide commercially viable alter-
natives that are providing such services to customers. The
Commission shall act on any application for such a determina-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00138 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
139 Sec. 273COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tion within 90 days after receipt of such application, and shall
receive public comment on such application.
(7) ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—For
the purposes of administering this subsection and the regula-
tions prescribed thereunder, the Commission shall have the
same remedial authority as the Commission has in admin-
istering and enforcing the provisions of this title with respect
to any common carrier subject to this Act.
(8) D EFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection:
(A) The term ‘‘affiliate’’ shall have the same meaning
as in section 3 of this Act, except that, for purposes of
paragraph (1)(B)—
(i) an aggregate voting equity interest in Bell
Communications Research, Inc., of at least 5 percent
of its total voting equity, owned directly or indirectly
by more than 1 otherwise unaffiliated Bell operating
company, shall constitute an affiliate relationship; and
(ii) a voting equity interest in Bell Communica-
tions Research, Inc., by any otherwise unaffiliated Bell
operating company of less than 1 percent of Bell Com-
munications Research’s total voting equity shall not be
considered to be an equity interest under this para-
graph.
(B) The term ‘‘generic requirement’’ means a descrip-
tion of acceptable product attributes for use by local ex-
change carriers in establishing product specifications for
the purchase of telecommunications equipment, customer
premises equipment, and software integral thereto.
(C) The term ‘‘industry-wide’’ means activities funded
by or performed on behalf of local exchange carriers for use
in providing wireline telephone exchange service whose
combined total of deployed access lines in the United
States constitutes at least 30 percent of all access lines de-
ployed by telecommunications carriers in the United
States as of the date of enactment of the Telecommuni-
cations Act of 1996.
(D) The term ‘‘certification’’ means any technical proc-
ess whereby a party determines whether a product, for use
by more than one local exchange carrier, conforms with the
specified requirements pertaining to such product.
(E) The term ‘‘accredited standards development orga-
nization’’ means an entity composed of industry members
which has been accredited by an institution vested with
the responsibility for standards accreditation by the indus-
try.
(e) BELL OPERATING COMPANY EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT AND
S ALES.—
(1) NONDISCRIMINATION STANDARDS FOR MANUFAC-
TURING.—In the procurement or awarding of supply contracts
for telecommunications equipment, a Bell operating company,
or any entity acting on its behalf, for the duration of the re-
quirement for a separate subsidiary including manufacturing
under this Act—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00139 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
140Sec. 274 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(A) shall consider such equipment, produced or sup-
plied by unrelated persons; and
(B) may not discriminate in favor of equipment pro-
duced or supplied by an affiliate or related person.
(2) PROCUREMENT STANDARDS.—Each Bell operating com-
pany or any entity acting on its behalf shall make procurement
decisions and award all supply contracts for equipment, serv-
ices, and software on the basis of an objective assessment of
price, quality, delivery, and other commercial factors.
(3) NETWORK PLANNING AND DESIGN.—A Bell operating
company shall, to the extent consistent with the antitrust laws,
engage in joint network planning and design with local ex-
change carriers operating in the same area of interest. No par-
ticipant in such planning shall be allowed to delay the intro-
duction of new technology or the deployment of facilities to pro-
vide telecommunications services, and agreement with such
other carriers shall not be required as a prerequisite for such
introduction or deployment.
(4) SALES RESTRICTIONS.—Neither a Bell operating com-
pany engaged in manufacturing nor a manufacturing affiliate
of such a company shall restrict sales to any local exchange
carrier of telecommunications equipment, including software
integral to the operation of such equipment and related up-
grades.
(5) PROTECTION OF PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.—A Bell op-
erating company and any entity it owns or otherwise controls
shall protect the proprietary information submitted for pro-
curement decisions from release not specifically authorized by
the owner of such information.
(f) ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.—For the
purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this sec-
tion and the regulations prescribed thereunder, the Commission
shall have the same authority, power, and functions with respect
to any Bell operating company or any affiliate thereof as the Com-
mission has in administering and enforcing the provisions of this
title with respect to any common carrier subject to this Act.
(g) A DDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.—The Commission
may prescribe such additional rules and regulations as the Com-
mission determines are necessary to carry out the provisions of this
section, and otherwise to prevent discrimination and cross-sub-
sidization in a Bell operating company’s dealings with its affiliate
and with third parties.
(h) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘manufac-
turing’’ has the same meaning as such term has under the AT&T
Consent Decree.
SEC. 274. ø47 U.S.C. 274¿ ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING BY BELL OPER-
ATING COMPANIES.
(a) LIMITATIONS.—No Bell operating company or any affiliate
may engage in the provision of electronic publishing that is dis-
seminated by means of such Bell operating company’s or any of its
affiliates’ basic telephone service, except that nothing in this sec-
tion shall prohibit a separated affiliate or electronic publishing
joint venture operated in accordance with this section from engag-
ing in the provision of electronic publishing.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00140 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
141 Sec. 274COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(b) SEPARATED AFFILIATE OR ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING JOINT
VENTURE REQUIREMENTS.—A separated affiliate or electronic pub-
lishing joint venture shall be operated independently from the Bell
operating company. Such separated affiliate or joint venture and
the Bell operating company with which it is affiliated shall—
(1) maintain separate books, records, and accounts and
prepare separate financial statements;
(2) not incur debt in a manner that would permit a cred-
itor of the separated affiliate or joint venture upon default to
have recourse to the assets of the Bell operating company;
(3) carry out transactions (A) in a manner consistent with
such independence, (B) pursuant to written contracts or tariffs
that are filed with the Commission and made publicly avail-
able, and (C) in a manner that is auditable in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards;
(4) value any assets that are transferred directly or indi-
rectly from the Bell operating company to a separated affiliate
or joint venture, and record any transactions by which such as-
sets are transferred, in accordance with such regulations as
may be prescribed by the Commission or a State commission
to prevent improper cross subsidies;
(5) between a separated affiliate and a Bell operating com-
pany—
(A) have no officers, directors, and employees in com-
mon after the effective date of this section; and
(B) own no property in common;
(6) not use for the marketing of any product or service of
the separated affiliate or joint venture, the name, trademarks,
or service marks of an existing Bell operating company except
for names, trademarks, or service marks that are owned by the
entity that owns or controls the Bell operating company;
(7) not permit the Bell operating company—
(A) to perform hiring or training of personnel on be-
half of a separated affiliate;
(B) to perform the purchasing, installation, or mainte-
nance of equipment on behalf of a separated affiliate, ex-
cept for telephone service that it provides under tariff or
contract subject to the provisions of this section; or
(C) to perform research and development on behalf of
a separated affiliate;
(8) each have performed annually a compliance review—
(A) that is conducted by an independent entity for the
purpose of determining compliance during the preceding
calendar year with any provision of this section; and
(B) the results of which are maintained by the sepa-
rated affiliate or joint venture and the Bell operating com-
pany for a period of 5 years subject to review by any lawful
authority; and
(9) within 90 days of receiving a review described in para-
graph (8), file a report of any exceptions and corrective action
with the Commission and allow any person to inspect and copy
such report subject to reasonable safeguards to protect any
proprietary information contained in such report from being
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00141 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
142Sec. 274 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
used for purposes other than to enforce or pursue remedies
under this section.
(c) JOINT MARKETING.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2)—
(A) a Bell operating company shall not carry out any
promotion, marketing, sales, or advertising for or in con-
junction with a separated affiliate; and
(B) a Bell operating company shall not carry out any
promotion, marketing, sales, or advertising for or in con-
junction with an affiliate that is related to the provision of
electronic publishing.
(2) PERMISSIBLE JOINT ACTIVITIES.—
(A) JOINT TELEMARKETING.—A Bell operating company
may provide inbound telemarketing or referral services re-
lated to the provision of electronic publishing for a sepa-
rated affiliate, electronic publishing joint venture, affiliate,
or unaffiliated electronic publisher: Provided, That if such
services are provided to a separated affiliate, electronic
publishing joint venture, or affiliate, such services shall be
made available to all electronic publishers on request, on
nondiscriminatory terms.
(B) T EAMING ARRANGEMENTS.—A Bell operating com-
pany may engage in nondiscriminatory teaming or busi-
ness arrangements to engage in electronic publishing with
any separated affiliate or with any other electronic pub-
lisher if (i) the Bell operating company only provides facili-
ties, services, and basic telephone service information as
authorized by this section, and (ii) the Bell operating com-
pany does not own such teaming or business arrangement.
(C) ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING JOINT VENTURES.—A Bell
operating company or affiliate may participate on a non-
exclusive basis in electronic publishing joint ventures with
entities that are not a Bell operating company, affiliate, or
separated affiliate to provide electronic publishing services,
if the Bell operating company or affiliate has not more
than a 50 percent direct or indirect equity interest (or the
equivalent thereof) or the right to more than 50 percent of
the gross revenues under a revenue sharing or royalty
agreement in any electronic publishing joint venture. Offi-
cers and employees of a Bell operating company or affiliate
participating in an electronic publishing joint venture may
not have more than 50 percent of the voting control over
the electronic publishing joint venture. In the case of joint
ventures with small, local electronic publishers, the Com-
mission for good cause shown may authorize the Bell oper-
ating company or affiliate to have a larger equity interest,
revenue share, or voting control but not to exceed 80 per-
cent. A Bell operating company participating in an elec-
tronic publishing joint venture may provide promotion,
marketing, sales, or advertising personnel and services to
such joint venture.
(d) BELL OPERATING COMPANY REQUIREMENT.—A Bell oper-
ating company under common ownership or control with a sepa-
rated affiliate or electronic publishing joint venture shall provide
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00142 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
143 Sec. 274COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
network access and interconnections for basic telephone service to
electronic publishers at just and reasonable rates that are tariffed
(so long as rates for such services are subject to regulation) and
that are not higher on a per-unit basis than those charged for such
services to any other electronic publisher or any separated affiliate
engaged in electronic publishing.
(e) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—
(1) DAMAGES.—Any person claiming that any act or prac-
tice of any Bell operating company, affiliate, or separated affil-
iate constitutes a violation of this section may file a complaint
with the Commission or bring suit as provided in section 207
of this Act, and such Bell operating company, affiliate, or sepa-
rated affiliate shall be liable as provided in section 206 of this
Act; except that damages may not be awarded for a violation
that is discovered by a compliance review as required by sub-
section (b)(7) of this section and corrected within 90 days.
(2) CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS.—In addition to the provi-
sions of paragraph (1), any person claiming that any act or
practice of any Bell operating company, affiliate, or separated
affiliate constitutes a violation of this section may make appli-
cation to the Commission for an order to cease and desist such
violation or may make application in any district court of the
United States of competent jurisdiction for an order enjoining
such acts or practices or for an order compelling compliance
with such requirement.
(f) SEPARATED AFFILIATE REPORTING REQUIREMENT.—Any sep-
arated affiliate under this section shall file with the Commission
annual reports in a form substantially equivalent to the Form 10–
K required by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion.(g) E FFECTIVE DATES.—
(1) TRANSITION.—Any electronic publishing service being
offered to the public by a Bell operating company or affiliate
on the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of
1996 shall have one year from such date of enactment to com-
ply with the requirements of this section.
(2) SUNSET.—The provisions of this section shall not apply
to conduct occurring after 4 years after the date of enactment
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(h) DEFINITION OF ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘electronic publishing’’ means
the dissemination, provision, publication, or sale to an unaffili-
ated entity or person, of any one or more of the following: news
(including sports); entertainment (other than interactive
games); business, financial, legal, consumer, or credit mate-
rials; editorials, columns, or features; advertising; photos or
images; archival or research material; legal notices or public
records; scientific, educational, instructional, technical, profes-
sional, trade, or other literary materials; or other like or simi-
lar information.
(2) EXCEPTIONS.—The term ‘‘electronic publishing’’ shall
not include the following services:
(A) Information access, as that term is defined by the
AT&T Consent Decree.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00143 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
144Sec. 274 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) The transmission of information as a common car-
rier.(C) The transmission of information as part of a gate-
way to an information service that does not involve the
generation or alteration of the content of information, in-
cluding data transmission, address translation, protocol
conversion, billing management, introductory information
content, and navigational systems that enable users to ac-
cess electronic publishing services, which do not affect the
presentation of such electronic publishing services to
users.
(D) Voice storage and retrieval services, including
voice messaging and electronic mail services.
(E) Data processing or transaction processing services
that do not involve the generation or alteration of the con-
tent of information.
(F) Electronic billing or advertising of a Bell operating
company’s regulated telecommunications services.
(G) Language translation or data format conversion.
(H) The provision of information necessary for the
management, control, or operation of a telephone company
telecommunications system.
(I) The provision of directory assistance that provides
names, addresses, and telephone numbers and does not in-
clude advertising.
(J) Caller identification services.
(K) Repair and provisioning databases and credit card
and billing validation for telephone company operations.
(L) 911–E and other emergency assistance databases.
(M) Any other network service of a type that is like or
similar to these network services and that does not involve
the generation or alteration of the content of information.
(N) Any upgrades to these network services that do
not involve the generation or alteration of the content of
information.
(O) Video programming or full motion video entertain-
ment on demand.
(i) ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
(1) The term ‘‘affiliate’’ means any entity that, directly or
indirectly, owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is
under common ownership or control with, a Bell operating
company. Such term shall not include a separated affiliate.
(2) The term ‘‘basic telephone service’’ means any wireline
telephone exchange service, or wireline telephone exchange
service facility, provided by a Bell operating company in a tele-
phone exchange area, except that such term does not include—
(A) a competitive wireline telephone exchange service
provided in a telephone exchange area where another enti-
ty provides a wireline telephone exchange service that was
provided on January 1, 1984, or
(B) a commercial mobile service.
(3) The term ‘‘basic telephone service information’’ means
network and customer information of a Bell operating company
and other information acquired by a Bell operating company as
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00144 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
145 Sec. 275COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
a result of its engaging in the provision of basic telephone serv-
ice.
(4) The term ‘‘control’’ has the meaning that it has in 17
C.F.R. 240.12b–2, the regulations promulgated by the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.) or any successor pro-
vision to such section.
(5) The term ‘‘electronic publishing joint venture’’ means a
joint venture owned by a Bell operating company or affiliate
that engages in the provision of electronic publishing which is
disseminated by means of such Bell operating company’s or
any of its affiliates’ basic telephone service.
(6) The term ‘‘entity’’ means any organization, and in-
cludes corporations, partnerships, sole proprietorships, associa-
tions, and joint ventures.
(7) The term ‘‘inbound telemarketing’’ means the mar-
keting of property, goods, or services by telephone to a cus-
tomer or potential customer who initiated the call.
(8) The term ‘‘own’’ with respect to an entity means to
have a direct or indirect equity interest (or the equivalent
thereof) of more than 10 percent of an entity, or the right to
more than 10 percent of the gross revenues of an entity under
a revenue sharing or royalty agreement.
(9) The term ‘‘separated affiliate’’ means a corporation
under common ownership or control with a Bell operating com-
pany that does not own or control a Bell operating company
and is not owned or controlled by a Bell operating company
and that engages in the provision of electronic publishing
which is disseminated by means of such Bell operating com-
pany’s or any of its affiliates’ basic telephone service.
(10) The term ‘‘Bell operating company’’ has the meaning
provided in section 3, except that such term includes any enti-
ty or corporation that is owned or controlled by such a com-
pany (as so defined) but does not include an electronic pub-
lishing joint venture owned by such an entity or corporation.
SEC. 275. ø47 U.S.C. 275¿ ALARM MONITORING SERVICES.
(a) DELAYED ENTRY INTO ALARM MONITORING.—
(1) PROHIBITION.—No Bell operating company or affiliate
thereof shall engage in the provision of alarm monitoring serv-
ices before the date which is 5 years after the date of enact-
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(2) EXISTING ACTIVITIES.—Paragraph (1) does not prohibit
or limit the provision, directly or through an affiliate, of alarm
monitoring services by a Bell operating company that was en-
gaged in providing alarm monitoring services as of November
30, 1995, directly or through an affiliate. Such Bell operating
company or affiliate may not acquire any equity interest in, or
obtain financial control of, any unaffiliated alarm monitoring
service entity after November 30, 1995, and until 5 years after
the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
except that this sentence shall not prohibit an exchange of cus-
tomers for the customers of an unaffiliated alarm monitoring
service entity.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00145 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
146Sec. 276 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(b) NONDISCRIMINATION.—An incumbent local exchange carrier
(as defined in section 251(h)) engaged in the provision of alarm
monitoring services shall—
(1) provide nonaffiliated entities, upon reasonable request,
with the network services it provides to its own alarm moni-
toring operations, on nondiscriminatory terms and conditions;
and
(2) not subsidize its alarm monitoring services either di-
rectly or indirectly from telephone exchange service operations.
(c) EXPEDITED CONSIDERATION OF COMPLAINTS.—The Commis-
sion shall establish procedures for the receipt and review of com-
plaints concerning violations of subsection (b) or the regulations
thereunder that result in material financial harm to a provider of
alarm monitoring service. Such procedures shall ensure that the
Commission will make a final determination with respect to any
such complaint within 120 days after receipt of the complaint. If
the complaint contains an appropriate showing that the alleged vio-
lation occurred, as determined by the Commission in accordance
with such regulations, the Commission shall, within 60 days after
receipt of the complaint, order the incumbent local exchange carrier
(as defined in section 251(h)) and its affiliates to cease engaging in
such violation pending such final determination.
(d) USE OF DATA.—A local exchange carrier may not record or
use in any fashion the occurrence or contents of calls received by
providers of alarm monitoring services for the purposes of mar-
keting such services on behalf of such local exchange carrier, or
any other entity. Any regulations necessary to enforce this sub-
section shall be issued initially within 6 months after the date of
enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(e) DEFINITION OF ALARM MONITORING SERVICE.—The term
‘‘alarm monitoring service’’ means a service that uses a device lo-
cated at a residence, place of business, or other fixed premises—
(1) to receive signals from other devices located at or about
such premises regarding a possible threat at such premises to
life, safety, or property, from burglary, fire, vandalism, bodily
injury, or other emergency, and
(2) to transmit a signal regarding such threat by means of
transmission facilities of a local exchange carrier or one of its
affiliates to a remote monitoring center to alert a person at
such center of the need to inform the customer or another per-
son or police, fire, rescue, security, or public safety personnel
of such threat,
but does not include a service that uses a medical monitoring de-
vice attached to an individual for the automatic surveillance of an
ongoing medical condition.
SEC. 276. ø47 U.S.C. 276¿ PROVISION OF PAYPHONE SERVICE.
(a) NONDISCRIMINATION SAFEGUARDS.—After the effective date
of the rules prescribed pursuant to subsection (b), any Bell oper-
ating company that provides payphone service—
(1) shall not subsidize its payphone service directly or indi-
rectly from its telephone exchange service operations or its ex-
change access operations; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00146 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
147 Sec. 276COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
17 Section 2(a)(1)(E) of Public Law 117-338 inserts ‘‘or other calling device’’ after ‘‘payphone’’.
It did not specify which occurrence of the word payphone.
(2) shall not prefer or discriminate in favor of its payphone
service.
(b) REGULATIONS.—
(1) CONTENTS OF REGULATIONS.—In order to promote com-
petition among payphone service providers and promote the
widespread deployment of payphone services to the benefit of
the general public, within 9 months after the date of enact-
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the Commission
shall take all actions necessary (including any reconsideration)
to prescribe regulations that—
(A) establish a compensation plan to ensure that all
payphone 17 service providers are fairly compensated, and
all rates and charges are just and reasonable, for com-
pleted intrastate and interstate communications using
their payphone 17 or other calling device, except that emer-
gency calls and telecommunications relay service calls for
hearing disabled individuals shall not be subject to such
compensation;
(B) discontinue the intrastate and interstate carrier
access charge payphone service elements and payments in
effect on such date of enactment, and all intrastate and
interstate payphone subsidies from basic exchange and ex-
change access revenues, in favor of a compensation plan as
specified in subparagraph (A);
(C) prescribe a set of nonstructural safeguards for Bell
operating company payphone service to implement the pro-
visions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), which
safeguards shall, at a minimum, include the nonstructural
safeguards equal to those adopted in the Computer In-
quiry-III (CC Docket No. 90–623) proceeding;
(D) provide for Bell operating company payphone serv-
ice providers to have the same right that independent
payphone providers have to negotiate with the location
provider on the location provider’s selecting and con-
tracting with, and, subject to the terms of any agreement
with the location provider, to select and contract with, the
carriers that carry interLATA calls from their payphones,
unless the Commission determines in the rulemaking pur-
suant to this section that it is not in the public interest;
and (E) provide for all payphone service providers to have
the right to negotiate with the location provider on the lo-
cation provider’s selecting and contracting with, and, sub-
ject to the terms of any agreement with the location pro-
vider, to select and contract with, the carriers that carry
intraLATA calls from their payphones.
(2) PUBLIC INTEREST TELEPHONES.—In the rulemaking con-
ducted pursuant to paragraph (1), the Commission shall deter-
mine whether public interest payphones, which are provided in
the interest of public health, safety, and welfare, in locations
where there would otherwise not be a payphone, should be
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00147 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
148Sec. 301 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
maintained, and if so, ensure that such public interest
payphones are supported fairly and equitably.
(3) EXISTING CONTRACTS.—Nothing in this section shall af-
fect any existing contracts between location providers and
payphone service providers or interLATA or intraLATA car-
riers that are in force and effect as of the date of enactment
of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(c) STATE PREEMPTION.—To the extent that any State require-
ments are inconsistent with the Commission’s regulations, the
Commission’s regulations on such matters shall preempt such
State requirements.
(d) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘payphone
service’’ means the provision of public or semi-public pay tele-
phones, the provision of inmate telephone service and advanced
communications services described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (D),
and (E) of section 3(1) in correctional institutions, and any ancil-
lary services.
TITLE III—SPECIAL PROVISIONS
RELATING TO RADIO
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 301. ø47 U.S.C. 301¿ LICENSE FOR RADIO COMMUNICATION OR
TRANSMISSION OF ENERGY.
It is the purpose of this Act, among other things, to maintain
the control of the United States over all the channels of radio
transmission; and to provide for the use of such channels, but not
the ownership thereof, by persons for limited periods of time, under
licenses granted by Federal authority, and no such license shall be
construed to create any right, beyond the terms, conditions, and pe-
riods of the license. No person shall use or operate any apparatus
for the transmission of energy or communications or signals by
radio (a) from one place in any State, Territory, or possession of the
United States or in the District of Columbia to another place in the
same State, Territory, possession, or District; or (b) from any State,
Territory, or possession of the United States, or from the District
of Columbia to any other State, Territory, or possession of the
United States; or (c) from any place in any State, Territory, or pos-
session of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, to any
place in any foreign country or to any vessel; or (d) within any
State when the effects of such use extend beyond the borders of
said State, or when interference is caused by such use or operation
with the transmission of such energy, communications, or signals
from within said State to any place beyond its borders, or from any
place beyond its borders to any place within said State, or with the
transmission or reception of such energy, communications, or sig-
nals from and/or to places beyond the borders of said State; or (e)
upon any vessel or aircraft of the United States (except as provided
in section 303(t)); or (f) upon any other mobile stations within the
jurisdiction of the United States, except under and in accordance
with this Act and with a license in that behalf granted under the
provisions of this Act.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00148 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
149 Sec. 302COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
18 Public Law 97–259, 96 Stat. 1087, 1091–92, Sept. 13, 1982, which amended section 302(a),
also stated:
Any minimum performance standard established by the Federal Communications Com-
mission under section 302(a)(2) of the Communications Act of 1934, as added by the amend-
ment made in subsection (a)(1) øof Sec. 108 of the statute¿, shall not apply to any home
electronic equipment or systems manufactured before the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 302. ø47 U.S.C. 302a¿ DEVICES WHICH INTERFERE WITH RADIO RE-
CEPTION.
(a) The Commission may, consistent with the public interest,
convenience, and necessity, make reasonable regulations (1) gov-
erning the interference potential of devices which in their operation
are capable of emitting radio frequency energy by radiation, con-
duction, or other means in sufficient degree to cause harmful inter-
ference to radio communications; and (2) establishing minimum
performance standards for home electronic equipment and systems
to reduce their susceptibility to interference from radio frequency
energy. Such regulations shall be applicable to the manufacture,
import, sale, offer for sale, or shipment of such devices and home
electronic equipment and systems, and to the use of such devices. 18
(b) No person shall manufacture, import, sell, offer for sale, or
ship devices or home electronic equipment and systems, or use de-
vices, which fail to comply with regulations promulgated pursuant
to this section.
(c) The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to car-
riers transporting such devices or home electronic equipment and
systems without trading in them, to devices or home electronic
equipment and systems manufactured solely for export, to the
equipment manufacturer, assembly, or installation of devices or
home electronic and systems for its own use by a public utility en-
gaged in providing electric service, or to devices or home electronic
equipment and systems for use by the Government of the United
States or any agency thereof. Devices and home electronic equip-
ment and systems for use by the Government of the United States
or any agency thereof shall be developed, procured, or otherwise ac-
quired, including offshore procurement, under United States Gov-
ernment criteria, standards, or specifications designed to achieve
the objectives of reducing interference to radio reception and to
home electronic equipment and systems, taking into account the
unique needs of national defense and security.
(d)(1) Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, the Commission shall prescribe and make effective regula-
tions denying equipment authorization (under part 15 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations, or any other part of that title) for any
scanning receiver that is capable of—
(A) receiving transmissions in the frequencies allocated to
the domestic cellular radio telecommunications service,
(B) readily being altered by the user to receive trans-
missions in such frequencies, or
(C) being equipped with decoders that convert digital cel-
lular transmissions to analog voice audio.
(2) Beginning 1 year after the effective date of the regulations
adopted pursuant to paragraph (1), no receiver having the capabili-
ties described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1), as
such capabilities are defined in such regulations, shall be manufac-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00149 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
150Sec. 302 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tured in the United States or imported for use in the United
States.
(e) The Commission may—
(1) authorize the use of private organizations for testing
and certifying the compliance of devices or home electronic
equipment and systems with regulations promulgated under
this section;
(2) accept as prima facie evidence of such compliance the
certification by any such organization; and
(3) establish such qualifications and standards as it deems
appropriate for such private organizations, testing, and certifi-
cation.
(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a State or local gov-
ernment may enact a statute or ordinance that prohibits a violation
of the following regulations of the Commission under this section:
(A) A regulation that prohibits a use of citizens band radio
equipment not authorized by the Commission.
(B) A regulation that prohibits the unauthorized operation
of citizens band radio equipment on a frequency between 24
MHz and 35 MHz.
(2) A station that is licensed by the Commission pursuant to
section 301 in any radio service for the operation at issue shall not
be subject to action by a State or local government under this sub-
section. A State or local government statute or ordinance enacted
for purposes of this subsection shall identify the exemption avail-
able under this paragraph.
(3) The Commission shall, to the extent practicable, provide
technical guidance to State and local governments regarding the
detection and determination of violations of the regulations speci-
fied in paragraph (1).
(4)(A) In addition to any other remedy authorized by law, a
person affected by the decision of a State or local government agen-
cy enforcing a statute or ordinance under paragraph (1) may sub-
mit to the Commission an appeal of the decision on the grounds
that the State or local government, as the case may be, enacted a
statute or ordinance outside the authority provided in this sub-
section.
(B) A person shall submit an appeal on a decision of a State
or local government agency to the Commission under this para-
graph, if at all, not later than 30 days after the date on which the
decision by the State or local government agency becomes final, but
prior to seeking judicial review of such decision.
(C) The Commission shall make a determination on an appeal
submitted under subparagraph (B) not later than 180 days after its
submittal.
(D) If the Commission determines under subparagraph (C) that
a State or local government agency has acted outside its authority
in enforcing a statute or ordinance, the Commission shall preempt
the decision enforcing the statute or ordinance.
(5) The enforcement of statute or ordinance that prohibits a
violation of a regulation by a State or local government under para-
graph (1) in a particular case shall not preclude the Commission
from enforcing the regulation in that case concurrently.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00150 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
151 Sec. 303COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(6) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to diminish
or otherwise affect the jurisdiction of the Commission under this
section over devices capable of interfering with radio communica-
tions.
(7) The enforcement of a statute or ordinance by a State or
local government under paragraph (1) with regard to citizens band
radio equipment on board a ‘‘commercial motor vehicle’’, as defined
in section 31101 of title 49, United States Code, shall require prob-
able cause to find that the commercial motor vehicle or the indi-
vidual operating the vehicle is in violation of the regulations de-
scribed in paragraph (1).
SEC. 303. ø47 U.S.C. 303¿ GENERAL POWERS OF COMMISSION.
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the Commission from
time to time, as public convenience, interest, or necessity requires
shall—
(a) Classify radio stations;
(b) Prescribe the nature of the service to be rendered by each
class of licensed stations and each station within any class;
(c) Assign bands of frequencies to the various classes of sta-
tions, and assign frequencies for each individual station and deter-
mine the power which each station shall use and the time during
which it may operate;
(d) Determine the location of classes of stations or individual
stations;
(e) Regulate the kind of apparatus to be used with respect to
its external effects and the purity and sharpness of the emissions
from each station and from the apparatus therein;
(f) Make such regulations not inconsistent with law as it may
deem necessary to prevent interference between stations and to
carry out the provisions of this Act: Provided, however, that
changes in the frequencies, authorized power, or in the times of op-
eration of any station, shall not be made without the consent of the
station licensee unless the Commission shall determine that such
changes will promote public convenience or interest or will serve
public necessity, or the provisions of this Act will be more fully
complied with;
(g) Study new uses for radio, provide for experimental uses of
frequencies, and generally encourage the larger and more effective
use of radio in the public interest;
(h) Have authority to establish areas or zones to be served by
any station;
(i) Have authority to make special regulations applicable to
radio stations engaged in chain broadcasting;
(j) Have authority to make general rules and regulations re-
quiring stations to keep such records of programs, transmissions of
energy, communications or signals as it may deem desirable;
(k) Have authority to exclude from the requirements of any
regulations in whole or in part any radio station upon railroad roll-
ing stock, or to modify such regulations in its discretion;
(l)(1) Have the authority to prescribe the qualifications of sta-
tion operators, to classify them according to the duties to be per-
formed, to fix the forms of such licenses, and to issue them to per-
sons who are found to be qualified by the Commission and who oth-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00151 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
152Sec. 303 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
erwise are legally eligible for employment in the United States, ex-
cept that such requirement relating to eligibility for employment in
the United States shall not apply in the case of licenses issued by
the Commission to (A) persons holding United States pilot certifi-
cates; or (B) persons holding foreign aircraft pilot certificates which
are valid in the United States, if the foreign government involved
has entered into a reciprocal agreement under which such foreign
government does not impose any similar requirement relating to
eligibility for employment upon citizens of the United States;
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection, an indi-
vidual to whom a radio station is licensed under the provisions of
this Act may be issued an operator’s license to operate that station.
(3) In addition to amateur operator licenses which the Commis-
sion may issue to aliens pursuant to paragraph (2) of this sub-
section, and notwithstanding section 301 of this Act and paragraph
(1) of this subsection, the Commission may issue authorizations,
under such conditions and terms as it may prescribe, to permit an
alien licensed by his government as an amateur radio operator to
operate his amateur radio station licensed by his government in
the United States, its possessions, and the Commonwealth of Puer-
to Rico provided there is in effect a multilateral or bilateral agree-
ment, to which the United States and the alien’s government are
parties, for such operation on a reciprocal basis by United States
amateur radio operators. Other provisions of this Act and of the
Administrative Procedure Act shall not be applicable to any request
or application for or modification, suspension or cancellation of any
such authorization.
(m)(1) Have authority to suspend the license of any operator
upon proof sufficient to satisfy the Commission that the licensee—
(A) Has violated, or caused, aided, or abetted the violation of,
any provision of any Act, treaty, or convention binding on the
United States, which the Commission is authorized to administer,
or any regulation made by the Commission under any such Act,
treaty, or convention; or
(B) Has failed to carry out a lawful order of the master or per-
son lawfully in charge of the ship or aircraft on which he is em-
ployed; or
(C) Has willfully damaged or permitted radio apparatus or in-
stallations to be damaged; or
(D) Has transmitted superfluous radio communications or sig-
nals or communications containing profane or obscene words, lan-
guage, or meaning, or has knowingly transmitted—
(1) False or deceptive signals or communications; or
(2) A call signal or letter which has not been assigned by prop-
er authority to the station he is operating; or
(E) Has willfully or maliciously interfered with any other radio
communications or signals; or
(F) Has obtained or attempted to obtain, or has assisted an-
other to obtain or attempt to obtain, an operator’s license by fraud-
ulent means.
(2) No order of suspension of any operator’s license shall take
effect until fifteen days’ notice in writing thereof, stating the cause
for the proposed suspension, has been given to the operator li-
censee who may make written application to the Commission at
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00152 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
153 Sec. 303COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
any time within said fifteen days for hearing upon such order. The
notice to the operator licensee shall not be effective until actually
received by him, and from that time he shall have fifteen days in
which to mail the said application. In the event that physical condi-
tions prevent mailing of the application at the expiration of the fif-
teen-day period, the application shall then be mailed as soon as
possible thereafter, accompanied by a satisfactory explanation of
the delay. Upon receipt by the Commission of such application for
hearing, said order of suspension shall be held in abeyance until
the conclusion of the hearing which shall be conducted under such
rules as the Commission may prescribe. Upon the conclusion of
said hearing the Commission may affirm, modify, or revoke said
order of suspension.
(n) Have authority to inspect all radio installations associated
with stations required to be licensed by any Act, or which the Com-
mission by rule has authorized to operate without a license under
section 307(e)(1), or which are subject to the provisions of any Act,
treaty, or convention binding on the United States, to ascertain
whether in construction, installation, and operation they conform to
the requirements of the rules and regulations of the Commission,
the provisions of any Act, the terms of any treaty or convention
binding on the United States and the conditions of the license or
other instrument of authorization under which they are con-
structed, installed, or operated.
(o) Have authority to designate call letters of all stations;
(p) Have authority to cause to be published such call letters
and such other announcements and data as in the judgment of the
Commission may be required for the efficient operation of radio
stations subject the jurisdiction of the United States and for the
proper enforcement of this Act;
(q) Have authority to require the painting and/or illumination
of radio towers if and when in its judgment such towers constitute,
or there is a reasonable possibility that they may constitute, a
menace to air navigation. The permittee or licensee, and the tower
owner in any case in which the owner is not the permittee or li-
censee, shall maintain the painting and/or illumination of the
tower as prescribed by the Commission pursuant to this section. In
the event that the tower ceases to be licensed by the Commission
for the transmission of radio energy, the owner of the tower shall
maintain the prescribed painting and/or illumination of such tower
until it is dismantled, and the Commission may require the owner
to dismantle and remove the tower when the administrator of the
Federal Aviation Agency determines that there is a reasonable pos-
sibility that it may constitute a menace to air navigation.
(r) Make such rules and regulations and prescribe such restric-
tions and conditions, not inconsistent with law, as may be nec-
essary to carry out the provisions of this Act, or any international
radio or wire communications treaty or convention, or regulations
annexed thereto, including any treaty or convention insofar as it
relates to the use of radio, to which the United States is or may
hereafter become a party.
(s) Have authority to require that apparatus designed to re-
ceive television pictures broadcast simultaneously with sound be
capable of adequately receiving all frequencies allocated by the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00153 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
154Sec. 303 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
19 Margin of subsection (u) so in law.
Commission to television broadcasting when such apparatus is
shipped in interstate commerce, or is imported from any foreign
country into the United States, for sale or resale to the public.
(t) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 301(e), have au-
thority, in any case in which an aircraft registered in the United
States is operated (pursuant to a lease, charter, or similar arrange-
ment) by an aircraft operator who is subject to regulation by the
government of a foreign nation, to enter into an agreement with
such government under which the Commission shall recognize and
accept any radio station licenses and radio operator licenses issued
by such government with respect to such aircraft.
(u) 19 Require that, if technically feasible—
(1) apparatus designed to receive or play back video
programming transmitted simultaneously with sound, if
such apparatus is manufactured in the United States or
imported for use in the United States and uses a picture
screen of any size—
(A) be equipped with built-in closed caption de-
coder circuitry or capability designed to display closed-
captioned video programming;
(B) have the capability to decode and make avail-
able the transmission and delivery of video description
services as required by regulations reinstated and
modified pursuant to section 713(f); and
(C) have the capability to decode and make avail-
able emergency information (as that term is defined in
section 79.2 of the Commission’s regulations (47 CFR
79.2)) in a manner that is accessible to individuals
who are blind or visually impaired; and
(2) notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection—
(A) apparatus described in such paragraph that
use a picture screen that is less than 13 inches in size
meet the requirements of subparagraph (A), (B), or (C)
of such paragraph only if the requirements of such
subparagraphs are achievable (as defined in section
716);
(B) any apparatus or class of apparatus that are
display-only video monitors with no playback capa-
bility are exempt from the requirements of such para-
graph; and
(C) the Commission shall have the authority, on
its own motion or in response to a petition by a manu-
facturer, to waive the requirements of this subsection
for any apparatus or class of apparatus—
(i) primarily designed for activities other than
receiving or playing back video programming
transmitted simultaneously with sound; or
(ii) for equipment designed for multiple pur-
poses, capable of receiving or playing video pro-
gramming transmitted simultaneously with sound
but whose essential utility is derived from other
purposes.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00154 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
155 Sec. 303COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
20 Amendment adding subsection (w) did not take effect under the provisions of section
551(e)(1) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (P.L. 104–104; 110 Stat 142; 47 U.S.C. 303,
note).
21 Margin of subsection (z) so in law.
(v) Have exclusive jurisdiction to regulate the provision of di-
rect-to-home satellite services. As used in this subsection, the term
‘‘direct-to-home satellite services’’ means the distribution or broad-
casting of programming or services by satellite directly to the sub-
scriber’s premises without the use of ground receiving or distribu-
tion equipment, except at the subscriber’s premises or in the uplink
process to the satellite.
(w) 20 Prescribe—
(1) on the basis of recommendations from an advisory com-
mittee established by the Commission in accordance with sec-
tion 551(b)(2) of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, guide-
lines and recommended procedures for the identification and
rating of video programming that contains sexual, violent, or
other indecent material about which parents should be in-
formed before it is displayed to children: Provided, That noth-
ing in this paragraph shall be construed to authorize any rat-
ing of video programming on the basis of its political or reli-
gious content; and
(2) with respect to any video programming that has been
rated, and in consultation with the television industry, rules
requiring distributors of such video programming to transmit
such rating to permit parents to block the display of video pro-
gramming that they have determined is inappropriate for their
children.
(x) Require, in the case of an apparatus designed to receive tel-
evision signals that are shipped in interstate commerce or manu-
factured in the United States and that have a picture screen 13
inches or greater in size (measured diagonally), that such appa-
ratus be equipped with a feature designed to enable viewers to
block display of all programs with a common rating, except as oth-
erwise permitted by regulations pursuant to section 330(c)(4).
(y) Have authority to allocate electromagnetic spectrum so as
to provide flexibility of use, if—
(1) such use is consistent with international agreements to
which the United States is a party; and
(2) the Commission finds, after notice and an opportunity
for public comment, that—
(A) such an allocation would be in the public interest;
(B) such use would not deter investment in commu-
nications services and systems, or technology development;
and (C) such use would not result in harmful interference
among users.
(z) 21 Require that—
(1) if achievable (as defined in section 716), apparatus
designed to record video programming transmitted simul-
taneously with sound, if such apparatus is manufactured
in the United States or imported for use in the United
States, enable the rendering or the pass through of closed
captions, video description signals, and emergency infor-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00155 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
156Sec. 303 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
22 Margin of subsection (aa) so in law.
mation (as that term is defined in section 79.2 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations) such that viewers are able to
activate and de-activate the closed captions and video de-
scription as the video programming is played back on a
picture screen of any size; and
(2) interconnection mechanisms and standards for dig-
ital video source devices are available to carry from the
source device to the consumer equipment the information
necessary to permit or render the display of closed cap-
tions and to make encoded video description and emer-
gency information audible.
(aa) 22 Require—
(1) if achievable (as defined in section 716) that digital
apparatus designed to receive or play back video program-
ming transmitted in digital format simultaneously with
sound, including apparatus designed to receive or display
video programming transmitted in digital format using
Internet protocol, be designed, developed, and fabricated so
that control of appropriate built-in apparatus functions are
accessible to and usable by individuals who are blind or
visually impaired, except that the Commission may not
specify the technical standards, protocols, procedures, and
other technical requirements for meeting this requirement;
(2) that if on-screen text menus or other visual indica-
tors built in to the digital apparatus are used to access the
functions of the apparatus described in paragraph (1), such
functions shall be accompanied by audio output that is ei-
ther integrated or peripheral to the apparatus, so that
such menus or indicators are accessible to and usable by
individuals who are blind or visually impaired in real-time;
(3) that for such apparatus equipped with the func-
tions described in paragraphs (1) and (2) built in access to
those closed captioning and video description features
through a mechanism that is reasonably comparable to a
button, key, or icon designated for activating the closed
captioning or accessibility features; and
(4) that in applying this subsection the term ‘‘appa-
ratus’’ does not include a navigation device, as such term
is defined in section 76.1200 of the Commission’s rules (47
CFR 76.1200).
(bb) Require—
(1) if achievable (as defined in section 716), that the on-
screen text menus and guides provided by navigation devices
(as such term is defined in section 76.1200 of title 47, Code of
Federal Regulations) for the display or selection of multi-
channel video programming are audibly accessible in real-time
upon request by individuals who are blind or visually impaired,
except that the Commission may not specify the technical
standards, protocols, procedures, and other technical require-
ments for meeting this requirement;
(2) for navigation devices with built-in closed captioning
capability, that access to that capability through a mechanism
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00156 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
157 Sec. 305COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
23 Margin for paragraph (3) so in law.
is reasonably comparable to a button, key, or icon designated
for activating the closed captioning, or accessibility features;
and (3) 23 that, with respect to navigation device features
and functions—
(A) delivered in software, the requirements set
forth in this subsection shall apply to the manufac-
turer of such software; and
(B) delivered in hardware, the requirements set
forth in this subsection shall apply to the manufac-
turer of such hardware.
SEC. 304. ø47 U.S.C. 304¿ WAIVER BY LICENSEE.
No station license shall be granted by the Commission until
the applicant therefore shall have waived any claim to the use of
any particular frequency or of the electromagnetic spectrum as
against the regulatory power of the United States because of the
previous use of the same, whether by license or otherwise.
SEC. 305. ø47 U.S.C. 305¿ GOVERNMENT-OWNED STATIONS.
(a) Radio stations belonging to and operated by the United
States shall not be subject to the provisions of sections 301 and 303
of this Act. All such Government stations shall use such fre-
quencies as shall be assigned to each or to each class by the Presi-
dent. All such stations, except stations on board naval and other
Government vessels while at sea or beyond the limits of the conti-
nental United States, when transmitting any radio communication
or signal other than a communication or signal relating to Govern-
ment business, shall conform to such rules and regulations de-
signed to prevent interference with other radio stations and the
rights of others as the Commission may prescribe.
(b) All stations owned and operated by the United States, ex-
cept mobile stations of the Army of the United States, and all other
stations on land and sea, shall have special call letters designated
by the Commission.
(c) The provisions of sections 301 and 303 of this Act notwith-
standing, the President may, provided he determines it to be con-
sistent with and in the interest of national security, authorize a
foreign government, under such terms and conditions as he may
prescribe, to construct and operate at the seat of government of the
United States a low-power radio station in the fixed service at or
near the site of the embassy or legation of such foreign government
for transmission of its messages to points outside the United
States, but only (1) where he determines that the authorization
would be consistent with the national interest of the United States
and (2) where such foreign government has provided reciprocal
privileges to the United States to construct and operate radio sta-
tions within territories subject to its jurisdiction. Foreign govern-
ment stations authorized pursuant to the provisions of this sub-
section shall conform to such rules and regulations as the Presi-
dent may prescribe. The authorization of such stations, and the re-
newal, modification, suspension, revocation, or other termination of
such authority shall be in accordance with such procedures as may
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00157 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
158Sec. 306 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
be established by the President and shall not be subject to the
other provisions of this Act or of the Administrative Procedure Act.
SEC. 306. ø47 U.S.C. 306¿ FOREIGN SHIPS.
Section 301 of this Act shall not apply to any person sending
radio communications or signals on a foreign ship while the same
is within the jurisdiction of the United States, but such commu-
nications or signals shall be transmitted only in accordance with
such regulations designed to prevent interference as may be pro-
mulgated under the authority of this Act.
SEC. 307. ø47 U.S.C. 307¿ ALLOCATION OF FACILITIES; TERM OF LI-
CENSES.
(a) The Commission, if public convenience, interest, or neces-
sity will be served thereby, subject to the limitations of this Act,
shall grant to any applicant therefor a station license provided for
by this Act.
(b) In considering applications for licenses, and modifications
and renewals thereof, when and insofar as there is demand for the
same, the Commission shall make such distribution of licenses, fre-
quencies, hours of operation, and of power among the several
States and communities as to provide a fair, efficient, and equitable
distribution of radio service to each of the same.
(c) TERMS OF LICENSES.—
(1) INITIAL AND RENEWAL LICENSES.—Each license granted
for the operation of a broadcasting station shall be for a term
of not to exceed 8 years. Upon application therefor, a renewal
of such license may be granted from time to time for a term
of not to exceed 8 years from the date of expiration of the pre-
ceding license, if the Commission finds that public interest,
convenience, and necessity would be served thereby. Consistent
with the foregoing provisions of this subsection, the Commis-
sion may by rule prescribe the period or periods for which li-
censes shall be granted and renewed for particular classes of
stations, but the Commission may not adopt or follow any rule
which would preclude it, in any case involving a station of a
particular class, from granting or renewing a license for a
shorter period than that prescribed for stations of such class if,
in its judgment, the public interest, convenience, or necessity
would be served by such action.
(2) MATERIALS IN APPLICATION.—In order to expedite ac-
tion on applications for renewal of broadcasting station licenses
and in order to avoid needless expense to applicants for such
renewals, the Commission shall not require any such applicant
to file any information which previously has been furnished to
the Commission or which is not directly material to the consid-
erations that affect the granting or denial of such application,
but the Commission may require any new or additional facts
it deems necessary to make its findings.
(3) CONTINUATION PENDING DECISION.—Pending any ad-
ministrative or judicial hearing and final decision on such an
application and the disposition of any petition for rehearing
pursuant to section 405 or section 402, the Commission shall
continue such license in effect.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00158 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
159 Sec. 308COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(d) No renewal of an existing station license in the broadcast
or the common carrier services shall be granted more than thirty
days prior to the expiration of the original license.
(e)(1) Notwithstanding any license requirement established in
this Act, if the Commission determines that such authorization
serves the public interest, convenience, and necessity, the Commis-
sion may by rule authorize the operation of radio stations without
individual licenses in the following radio services: (A) the citizens
band radio service; (B) the radio control service; (C) the aviation
radio service for aircraft stations operated on domestic flights when
such aircraft are not otherwise required to carry a radio station;
and (D) the maritime radio service for ship stations navigated on
domestic voyages when such ships are not otherwise required to
carry a radio station.
(2) Any radio station operator who is authorized by the Com-
mission to operate without an individual license shall comply with
all other provisions of this Act and with rules prescribed by the
Commission under this Act.
(3) For purposes of this subsection, the terms ‘‘citizens band
radio service’’, ‘‘radio control service’’, ‘‘aircraft station’’ and ‘‘ship
station’’ shall have the meanings given them by the Commission by
rule.(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, (1) any holder
of a broadcast license may broadcast to an area of Alaska that oth-
erwise does not have access to over the air broadcasts via trans-
lator, microwave, or other alternative signal delivery even if an-
other holder of a broadcast license begins broadcasting to such
area, (2) any holder of a broadcast license who has broadcast to an
area of Alaska that did not have access to over the air broadcasts
via translator, microwave, or other alternative signal delivery may
continue providing such service even if another holder of a broad-
cast license begins broadcasting to such area, and shall not be fined
or subject to any other penalty, forfeiture, or revocation related to
providing such service including any fine, penalty, forfeiture, or
revocation for continuing to operate notwithstanding orders to the
contrary.
SEC. 308. ø47 U.S.C. 308¿ APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES; CONDITIONS
IN LICENSE FOR FOREIGN COMMUNICATION.
(a) The Commission may grant construction permits and sta-
tion licenses, or modifications or renewals thereof, only upon writ-
ten application therefor received by it: Provided, That (1) in cases
of emergency found by the Commission involving danger to life or
property or due to damage to equipment, or (2) during a national
emergency proclaimed by the President or declared by the Congress
and during the continuance of any war in which the United States
is engaged and when such action is necessary for the national de-
fense or security or otherwise in furtherance of the war effort, or
(3) in cases of emergency where the Commission finds, in the non-
broadcast services, that it would not be feasible to secure renewal
applications from existing licensees or otherwise to follow normal
licensing procedure, the Commission may grant construction per-
mits and station licenses, or modifications or renewals thereof, dur-
ing an emergency so found by the Commission or during the con-
tinuance of any such national emergency or war, in such manner
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00159 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
160Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission shall by
regulation prescribe, and without the filing of a formal application,
but no authorization so granted shall continue in effect beyond the
period of emergency or war requiring it: Provided further, That the
Commission may issue by cable, telegraph, or radio a permit for
the operation of a station on a vessel of the United States at sea,
effective in lieu of a license until said vessel shall return to a port
of the continental United States.
(b) All applications for station licenses, or modifications or re-
newals thereof, shall set forth such facts as the Commission by reg-
ulation may prescribe as to the citizenship, character, and finan-
cial, technical, and other qualifications of the applicant to operate
the station; the ownership and location of the proposed station and
of the stations, if any, with which it is proposed to communicate;
the frequencies and the power desired to be used; the hours of the
day or other periods of time during which it is proposed to operate
the station; the purposes for which the station is to be used; and
such other information as it may require. The Commission, at any
time after the filing of such original application and during the
term of any such licenses, may require from an applicant or li-
censee further written statements of fact to enable it to determine
whether such original application should be granted or denied or
such license revoked. Such application and/or such statement of
fact shall be signed by the applicant and/or licensee in any manner
or form, including by electronic means, as the Commission may
prescribe by regulation.
(c) The Commission in granting any license for a station in-
tended or used for commercial communication between the United
States or any Territory or possession, continental or insular, sub-
ject to the jurisdiction of the United States, and any foreign coun-
try, may impose any terms, conditions, or restrictions authorized to
be imposed with respect to submarine-cable licenses by section 2 of
an Act entitled ‘‘An Act relating to the landing and operation of
submarine cables in the United States,’’ approved May 27, 1921.
(d) SUMMARY OF COMPLAINTS.—Each applicant for the renewal
of a commercial or noncommercial television license shall attach as
an exhibit to the application a summary of written comments and
suggestions received from the public and maintained by the li-
censee (in accordance with Commission regulations) that comment
on the applicant’s programming, if any, and that are characterized
by the commentor as constituting violent programming.
SEC. 309. ø47 U.S.C. 309¿ ACTION UPON APPLICATIONS; FORM OF AND
CONDITIONS ATTACHED TO LICENSES.
(a) Subject to the provisions of this section, the Commission
shall determine, in the case of each application filed with it to
which section 308 applies, whether the public interest, convenience,
and necessity will be served by the granting of such application,
and, if the Commission, upon examination of such application and
upon consideration of such other matters as the Commission may
officially notice, shall find that public interest, convenience, and ne-
cessity would be served by the granting thereof, it shall grant such
application.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, no such
application—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00160 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
161 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) for an instrument of authorization in the case of a sta-
tion in the broadcasting or common carrier services, or
(2) for an instrument of authorization in the case of a sta-
tion in any of the following categories:
(A) industrial radio positioning stations for which fre-
quencies are assigned on an exclusive basis,
(B) aeronautical en route stations,
(C) aeronautical advisory stations,
(D) airdrome control stations,
(E) aeronautical fixed stations, and
(F) such other stations or classes of stations, not in the
broadcasting or common carrier services, as the Commis-
sion shall by rule prescribe,
shall be granted by the Commission earlier than thirty days fol-
lowing issuance of public notice by the Commission of the accept-
ance for filing of such application or of any substantial amendment
thereof.
(c) Subsection (b) of this section shall not apply—
(1) to any minor amendment of an application to which
such subsection is applicable, or
(2) to any application for—
(A) a minor change in the facilities of an authorized
station,
(B) consent to an involuntary assignment or transfer
under section 310(b) or to an assignment or transfer there-
under which does not involve a substantial change in own-
ership or control,
(C) a license under section 319(c) or, pending applica-
tion for or grant of such license, any special or temporary
authorization to permit interim operation to facilitate com-
pletion of authorized construction or to provide substan-
tially the same service as would be authorized by such li-
cense,
(D) extension of time to complete construction of au-
thorized facilities,
(E) an authorization of facilities for remote pickups,
studio links and similar facilities for use in the operation
of a broadcast station,
(F) authorizations pursuant to section 325(c) where
the programs to be transmitted are special events not of
a continuing nature,
(G) a special temporary authorization for nonbroadcast
operation not to exceed thirty days where no application
for regular operation is contemplated to be filed or not to
exceed sixty days pending the filing of an application for
such regular operation, or
(H) an authorization under any of the proviso clauses
of section 308(a).
(d)(1) Any party in interest may file with the Commission a pe-
tition to deny any application (whether as originally filed or as
amended) to which subsection (b) of this section applies at any time
prior to the day of Commission grant thereof without hearing or
the day of formal designation thereof for hearing; except that with
respect to any classification of applications, the Commission from
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00161 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
162Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
time to time by rule may specify a shorter period (no less than thir-
ty days following the issuance of public notice by the Commission
of the acceptance for filing of such application or of any substantial
amendment thereof), which shorter period shall be reasonably re-
lated to the time when the applications would normally be reached
for processing. The petitioner shall serve a copy of such petition on
the applicant. The petition shall contain specific allegations of fact
sufficient to show that the petitioner is a party in interest and that
a grant of the application would be prima facie inconsistent with
subsection (a) (or subsection (k) in the case of renewal of any
broadcast station license). Such allegations of fact shall, except for
those of which official notice may be taken, be supported by affi-
davit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof. The
applicant shall be given the opportunity to file a reply in which al-
legations of fact or denials thereof shall similarly be supported by
affidavit.
(2) If the Commission finds on the basis of the application, the
pleadings filed, or other matters which it may officially notice that
there are no substantial and material questions of fact and that a
grant of the application would be consistent with subsection (a) (or
subsection (k) in the case of renewal of any broadcast station li-
cense), it shall make the grant, deny the petition, and issue a con-
cise statement of the reasons for denying the petition, which state-
ment shall dispose of all substantial issues raised by the petition.
If a substantial and material question of fact is presented or if the
Commission for any reason is unable to find that grant of the ap-
plication would be consistent with subsection (a) (or subsection (k)
in the case of renewal of any broadcast station license), it shall pro-
ceed as provided in subsection (e).
(e) If, in the case of any application to which subsection (a) of
this section applies, a substantial and material question of fact is
presented or the Commission for any reason is unable to make the
finding specified in such subsection, it shall formally designate the
application for hearing on the ground or reasons then obtaining
and shall forthwith notify the applicant and all other known par-
ties in interest of such action and the ground and reasons therefor,
specifying with particularity the matters and things in issue but
not including issues or requirements phrased generally. When the
Commission has so designated an application for hearing, the par-
ties in interest, if any, who are not notified by the Commission of
such action may acquire the status of a party to the proceeding
thereon by filing a petition for intervention showing the basis for
their interest not more than thirty days after publication of the
hearing issues or any substantial amendment thereto in the Fed-
eral Register. Any hearing subsequently held upon such application
shall be a full hearing in which the applicant and all other parties
in interest shall be permitted to participate. The burden of pro-
ceeding with the introduction of evidence and the burden of proof
shall be upon the applicant, except that with respect to any issue
presented by a petition to deny or a petition to enlarge the issues,
such burdens shall be as determined by the Commission.
(f) When an application subject to subsection (b) has been filed,
the Commission, notwithstanding the requirements of such sub-
section, may, if the grant of such application is otherwise author-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00162 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
163 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ized by law and if it finds that there are extraordinary cir-
cumstances requiring temporary operations in the public interest
and that delay in the institution of such temporary operations
would seriously prejudice the public interest, grant a temporary au-
thorization, accompanied by a statement of its reasons therefor, to
permit such temporary operations for a period not exceeding 180
days, and upon making like findings may extend such temporary
authorization for additional periods not to exceed 180 days. When
any such grant of a temporary authorization is made, the Commis-
sion shall give expeditious treatment to any timely filed petition to
deny such application and to any petition for rehearing of such
grant filed under section 405.
(g) The Commission is authorized to adopt reasonable classi-
fications of applications and amendments in order to effectuate the
purposes of this section.
(h) Such station licenses as the Commission may grant shall
be in such general form as it may prescribe, but each license shall
contain, in addition to other provisions, a statement of the fol-
lowing conditions to which such license shall be subject: (1) The
station license shall not vest in the licensee any right to operate
the station nor any right in the use of the frequencies designated
in the license beyond the term thereof nor in any other manner
than authorized therein; (2) neither the license nor the right grant-
ed thereunder shall be assigned or otherwise transferred in viola-
tion of this Act; (3) every license issued under this Act shall be sub-
ject in terms to the right of use or control conferred by section 706
of this Act.
(i) RANDOM SELECTION.—
(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Except as provided in paragraph
(5), if there is more than one application for any initial license
or construction permit, then the Commission shall have the au-
thority to grant such license or permit to a qualified applicant
through the use of a system of random selection.
(2) No license or construction permit shall be granted to an ap-
plicant selected pursuant to paragraph (1) unless the Commission
determines the qualifications of such applicant pursuant to sub-
section (a) and section 308(b). When substantial and material ques-
tions of fact exist concerning such qualifications, the Commission
shall conduct a hearing in order to make such determinations. For
the purposes of making such determinations, the Commission may,
by rule, and notwithstanding any other provision of law—
(A) adopt procedures for the submission of all or part of
the evidence in written form;
(B) delegate the function of presiding at the taking of writ-
ten evidence to Commission employees other than administra-
tive law judges; and
(C) omit the determination required by subsection (a) with
respect to any application other than the one selected pursuant
to paragraph (1).
(3)(A) The Commission shall establish rules and procedures to
ensure that, in the administration of any system of random selec-
tion under this subsection used for granting licenses or construc-
tion permits for any media of mass communications, significant
preferences will be granted to applicants or groups of applicants,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00163 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
164Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
24 This compilation executes amendments made by section 304(a)(9) but not amendments
made by section 303(a)(17) of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (P.L.
103–414).
25 Indentation so in original.
26 Section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934 was extensively amended by section 3002
of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (P.L. 105–33; Aug. 5, 1997). Sections 3002(c), 3007, and 3008
contained the following additional provisions related to spectrum to be made available by com-
petitive bidding:
the grant to which of the license or permit would increase the di-
versification of ownership of the media of mass communications. To
further diversify the ownership of the media of mass communica-
tions, an additional significant preference shall be granted to any
applicant controlled by a member or members of minority group.
(B) The Commission shall have authority to require each quali-
fied applicant seeking a significant preference under subparagraph
(A) to submit to the Commission such information as may be nec-
essary to enable the Commission to make a determination regard-
ing whether such applicant shall be granted such preference. Such
information shall be submitted in such form, at such times, and in
accordance with such procedures, as the Commission may require.
(C) For purposes of this paragraph:
(i) The term ‘‘media of mass communication’’ includes tele-
vision, radio, cable television, multipoint distribution service, direct
broadcast satellite service, and other services, the licensed facilities
of which may be substantially devoted toward providing program-
ming or other information services within the editorial control of
the licensee.
(ii) The term ‘‘minority group’’ includes Blacks, Hispanics,
American Indians, Alaska Natives, Asians, and Pacific Islanders.
(4)(A) The Commission shall 24 , after notice and opportunity for
hearing, prescribe rules establishing a system of random selection
for use by the Commission under this subsection in any instance
in which the Commission, in its discretion, determines that such
use is appropriate for the granting of any license or permit in ac-
cordance with paragraph (1).
(B) The Commission shall have authority to amend such rules
from time to time to the extent necessary too carry out the provi-
sions of this subsection. Any such amendment shall be made after
notice and opportunity for hearing.
(C) Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this
subparagraph, the Commission shall prescribe such transfer disclo-
sures and antitrafficking restrictions and payment schedules as are
necessary to prevent the unjust enrichment of recipients of licenses
or permits as a result of the methods employed to issue licenses
under this subsection.
(5) 25 TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—(A) Except as provided
in subparagraph (B), the Commission shall not issue any li-
cense or permit using a system of random selection under this
subsection after July 1, 1997.
(B) Subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall not apply
with respect to licenses or permits for stations described in sec-
tion 397(6) of this Act.
(j) USE OF COMPETITIVE BIDDING.— 26
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00164 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 5601 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
165 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 3002. SPECTRUM AUCTIONS.
(c) ø47 U.S.C. 925 note¿C OMMISSION O BLIGATION T O M AKE A DDITIONAL SPECTRUM A VAILABLE
BY A UCTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall complete all actions necessary to permit the as-
signment by September 30, 2002, by competitive bidding pursuant to section 309(j) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(j)), of licenses for the use of bands of fre-
quencies that—
(A) in the aggregate span not less than 55 megahertz;
(B) are located below 3 gigahertz;
(C) have not, as of the date of enactment of this Act—
(i) been designated by Commission regulation for assignment pursuant to such
section;
(ii) been identified by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to section 113 of the
National Telecommunications and Information Administration Organization Act
(47 U.S.C. 923);
(iii) been allocated for Federal Government use pursuant to section 305 of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 305);
(iv) been designated for reallocation under section 337 of the Communications
Act of 1934 (as added by this Act); or
(v) been allocated or authorized for unlicensed use pursuant to part 15 of the
Commission’s regulations (47 C.F.R. Part 15), if the operation of services licensed
pursuant to competitive bidding would interfere with operation of end-user prod-
ucts permitted under such regulations;
(D) include frequencies at 2,110–2,150 megahertz; and
(E) include 15 megahertz from within the bands of frequencies at 1,990–2,110 mega-
hertz.
(2) C RITERIA FOR R EASSIGNMENT.—In making available bands of frequencies for competi-
tive bidding pursuant to paragraph (1), the Commission shall—
(A) seek to promote the most efficient use of the electromagnetic spectrum;
(B) consider the cost of relocating existing uses to other bands of frequencies or other
means of communication;
(C) consider the needs of existing public safety radio services (as such services are
described in section 309(j)(2)(A) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by this
Act);
(D) comply with the requirements of international agreements concerning spectrum
allocations; and
(E) coordinate with the Secretary of Commerce when there is any impact on Federal
Government spectrum use.
(3) U SE OF BANDS AT 2,110-2, 150 MEGAHERTZ.—The Commission shall reallocate spectrum
located at 2,110-2,150 megahertz for assignment by competitive bidding unless the Commis-
sion determines that auction of other spectrum (A) better serves the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity, and (B) can reasonably be expected to produce greater receipts. If the
Commission makes such a determination, then the Commission shall, within 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, identify an alternative 40 megahertz, and report to the
Congress an identification of such alternative 40 megahertz for assignment by competitive
bidding.
(4) U SE OF 15 MEGAHERTZ FROM BANDS AT 1,990-2, 110 MEGAHERTZ.—The Commission shall
reallocate 15 megahertz from spectrum located at 1,990-2,110 megahertz for assignment by
competitive bidding unless the President determines such spectrum cannot be reallocated
due to the need to protect incumbent Federal systems from interference, and that allocation
of other spectrum (A) better serves the public interest, convenience, and necessity, and (B)
can reasonably be expected to produce comparable receipts. If the President makes such a
determination, then the President shall, within 2 years after the date of enactment of this
Act, identify alternative bands of frequencies totalling 15 megahertz, and report to the Con-
gress an identification of such alternative bands for assignment by competitive bidding.
(5) N OTIFICATION TO THE S ECRETARY OF C OMMERCE.—The Commission shall attempt to
accommodate incumbent licensees displaced under this section by relocating them to other
frequencies available for allocation by the Commission. The Commission shall notify the
Secretary of Commerce whenever the Commission is not able to provide for the effective re-
location of an incumbent licensee to a band of frequencies available to the Commission for
assignment. The notification shall include—
(A) specific information on the incumbent licensee;
(B) the bands the Commission considered for relocation of the licensee;
(C) the reasons the licensee cannot be accommodated in such bands; and
(D) the bands of frequencies identified by the Commission that are—
(i) suitable for the relocation of such licensee; and
(ii) allocated for Federal Government use, but that could be reallocated pursu-
ant to part B of the National Telecommunications and Information Administra-
tion Organization Act (as amended by this Act).
SEC. 3007. DEADLINE FOR COLLECTION
Continued
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00165 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 5601 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
166Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 3008. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR SPECTRUM AUCTIONS.
Notwithstanding section 309(b) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 309(b)), no ap-
plication for an instrument of authorization for frequencies assigned under this title (or amend-
ments made by this title) shall be granted by the Commission earlier than 7 days following
issuance of public notice by the Commission of the acceptance for filing of such application or
of any substantial amendment thereto. Notwithstanding section 309(d)(1) of such Act (47 U.S.C.
309(d)(1)), the Commission may specify a period (no less than 5 days following issuance of such
public notice) for the filing of petitions to deny any application for an instrument of authoriza-
tion for such frequencies.
(1) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—If, consistent with the obliga-
tions described in paragraph (6)(E), mutually exclusive applica-
tions are accepted for any initial license or construction permit,
then, except as provided in paragraph (2), the Commission
shall grant the license or permit to a qualified applicant
through a system of competitive bidding that meets the re-
quirements of this subsection.
(2) EXEMPTIONS.—The competitive bidding authority grant-
ed by this subsection shall not apply to licenses or construction
permits issued by the Commission—
(A) for public safety radio services, including private
internal radio services used by State and local govern-
ments and non-government entities and including emer-
gency road services provided by not-for-profit organiza-
tions, that—
(i) are used to protect the safety of life, health, or
property; and
(ii) are not made commercially available to the
public;
(B) for initial licenses or construction permits for dig-
ital television service given to existing terrestrial broad-
cast licensees to replace their analog television service li-
censes; or
(C) for stations described in section 397(6) of this Act.
(3) DESIGN OF SYSTEMS OF COMPETITIVE BIDDING.—For
each class of licenses or permits that the Commission grants
through the use of a competitive bidding system, the Commis-
sion shall, by regulation, establish a competitive bidding meth-
odology. The Commission shall seek to design and test multiple
alternative methodologies under appropriate circumstances.
The Commission shall, directly or by contract, provide for the
design and conduct (for purposes of testing) of competitive bid-
ding using a contingent combinatorial bidding system that per-
mits prospective bidders to bid on combinations or groups of li-
censes in a single bid and to enter multiple alternative bids
within a single bidding round. In identifying classes of licenses
and permits to be issued by competitive bidding, in specifying
eligibility and other characteristics of such licenses and per-
mits, and in designing the methodologies for use under this
subsection, the Commission shall include safeguards to protect
the public interest in the use of the spectrum and shall seek
to promote the purposes specified in section 1 of this Act and
the following objectives:
(A) the development and rapid deployment of new
technologies, products, and services for the benefit of the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00166 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
167 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
public, including those residing in rural areas, without ad-
ministrative or judicial delays;
(B) promoting economic opportunity and competition
and ensuring that new and innovative technologies are
readily accessible to the American people by avoiding ex-
cessive concentration of licenses and by disseminating li-
censes among a wide variety of applicants, including small
businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses
owned by members of minority groups and women;
(C) recovery for the public of a portion of the value of
the public spectrum resource made available for commer-
cial use and avoidance of unjust enrichment through the
methods employed to award uses of that resource;
(D) efficient and intensive use of the electromagnetic
spectrum;
(E) ensure that, in the scheduling of any competitive
bidding under this subsection, an adequate period is al-
lowed—
(i) before issuance of bidding rules, to permit no-
tice and comment on proposed auction procedures; and
(ii) after issuance of bidding rules, to ensure that
interested parties have a sufficient time to develop
business plans, assess market conditions, and evaluate
the availability of equipment for the relevant services;
and
(F) for any auction of eligible frequencies described in
section 113(g)(2) of the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration Organization Act (47 U.S.C.
923(g)(2)), the recovery of 110 percent of estimated reloca-
tion or sharing costs as provided to the Commission pursu-
ant to section 113(g)(4) of such Act.
(4) CONTENTS OF REGULATIONS.—In prescribing regulations
pursuant to paragraph (3), the Commission shall—
(A) consider alternative payment schedules and meth-
ods of calculation, including lump sums or guaranteed in-
stallment payments, with or without royalty payments, or
other schedules or methods that promote the objectives de-
scribed in paragraph (3)(B), and combinations of such
schedules and methods;
(B) include performance requirements, such as appro-
priate deadlines and penalties for performance failures, to
ensure prompt delivery of service to rural areas, to prevent
stockpiling or warehousing of spectrum by licensees or per-
mittees, and to promote investment in and rapid deploy-
ment of new technologies and services;
(C) consistent with the public interest, convenience,
and necessity, the purposes of this Act, and the character-
istics of the proposed service, prescribe area designations
and bandwidth assignments that promote (i) an equitable
distribution of licenses and services among geographic
areas, (ii) economic opportunity for a wide variety of appli-
cants, including small businesses, rural telephone compa-
nies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00167 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
168Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
and women, and (iii) investment in and rapid deployment
of new technologies and services;
(D) ensure that small businesses, rural telephone com-
panies, and businesses owned by members of minority
groups and women are given the opportunity to participate
in the provision of spectrum-based services, and, for such
purposes, consider the use of tax certificates, bidding pref-
erences, and other procedures;
(E) require such transfer disclosures and
antitrafficking restrictions and payment schedules as may
be necessary to prevent unjust enrichment as a result of
the methods employed to issue licenses and permits; and
(F) prescribe methods by which a reasonable reserve
price will be required, or a minimum bid will be estab-
lished, to obtain any license or permit being assigned pur-
suant to the competitive bidding, unless the Commission
determines that such a reserve price or minimum bid is
not in the public interest.
(5) BIDDER AND LICENSEE QUALIFICATION.—No person shall
be permitted to participate in a system of competitive bidding
pursuant to this subsection unless such bidder submits such
information and assurances as the Commission may require to
demonstrate that such bidder’s application is acceptable for fil-
ing. No license shall be granted to an applicant selected pursu-
ant to this subsection unless the Commission determines that
the applicant is qualified pursuant to subsection (a) and sec-
tions 308(b) and 310. Consistent with the objectives described
in paragraph (3), the Commission shall, by regulation, pre-
scribe expedited procedures consistent with the procedures au-
thorized by subsection (i)(2) for the resolution of any substan-
tial and material issues of fact concerning qualifications.
(6) RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection,
or in the use of competitive bidding, shall—
(A) alter spectrum allocation criteria and procedures
established by the other provisions of this Act;
(B) limit or otherwise affect the requirements of sub-
section (h) of this section, section 301, 304, 307, 310, or
706, or any other provision of this Act (other than sub-
sections (d)(2) and (e) of this section);
(C) diminish the authority of the Commission under
the other provisions of this Act to regulate or reclaim spec-
trum licenses;
(D) be construed to convey any rights, including any
expectation of renewal of a license, that differ from the
rights that apply to other licenses within the same service
that were not issued pursuant to this subsection;
(E) be construed to relieve the Commission of the obli-
gation in the public interest to continue to use engineering
solutions, negotiation, threshold qualifications, service reg-
ulations, and other means in order to avoid mutual exclu-
sivity in application and licensing proceedings;
(F) be construed to prohibit the Commission from
issuing nationwide, regional, or local licenses or permits;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00168 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
169 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(G) be construed to prevent the Commission from
awarding licenses to those persons who make significant
contributions to the development of a new telecommuni-
cations service or technology; or
(H) be construed to relieve any applicant for a license
or permit of the obligation to pay charges imposed pursu-
ant to section 8 of this Act.
(7) CONSIDERATION OF REVENUES IN PUBLIC INTEREST DE-
TERMINATIONS.—
(A) CONSIDERATION PROHIBITED.—In making a decision
pursuant to section 303(c) to assign a band of frequencies
to a use for which licenses or permits will be issued pursu-
ant to this subsection, and in prescribing regulations pur-
suant to paragraph (4)(C) of this subsection, the Commis-
sion may not base a finding of public interest, convenience,
and necessity on the expectation of Federal revenues from
the use of a system of competitive bidding under this sub-
section.
(B) CONSIDERATION LIMITED.—In prescribing regula-
tions pursuant to paragraph (4)(A) of this subsection, the
Commission may not base a finding of public interest, con-
venience, and necessity solely or predominantly on the ex-
pectation of Federal revenues from the use of a system of
competitive bidding under this subsection.
(C) CONSIDERATION OF DEMAND FOR SPECTRUM NOT AF-
FECTED.—Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to
prevent the Commission from continuing to consider con-
sumer demand for spectrum-based services.
(8) TREATMENT OF REVENUES.—
(A) GENERAL RULE.—Except as provided in subpara-
graphs (B), (D), (E), (F), and (G), all proceeds from the use
of a competitive bidding system under this subsection shall
be deposited in the Treasury in accordance with chapter 33
of title 31, United States Code.
(B) RETENTION OF REVENUES.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), the salaries and expenses account of the
Commission shall retain as an offsetting collection such
sums as may be necessary from such proceeds for the costs
of developing and implementing the program required by
this subsection. Such offsetting collections shall be avail-
able for obligation subject to the terms and conditions of
the receiving appropriations account, and shall be depos-
ited in such accounts on a quarterly basis. Such offsetting
collections are authorized to remain available until ex-
pended.
(C) DEPOSIT AND USE OF AUCTION ESCROW AC-
COUNTS.—Any deposits the Commission may require for
the qualification of any person to bid in a system of com-
petitive bidding pursuant to this subsection shall be depos-
ited in the Treasury. Within 45 days following the conclu-
sion of the competitive bidding—
(i) the deposits of successful bidders shall be de-
posited in the general fund of the Treasury (where
such deposits shall be used for the sole purpose of def-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00169 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
170Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
icit reduction), except as otherwise provided in sub-
paragraphs (D)(ii), (E)(ii), (F), and (G); and
(ii) the deposits of unsuccessful bidders shall be
returned to such bidders, and payments representing
the return of such deposits shall not be subject to ad-
ministrative offset under section 3716(c) of title 31,
United States Code.
(D) PROCEEDS FROM REALLOCATED FEDERAL SPEC-
TRUM.—
(i) I N GENERAL.—Except as provided in clause (ii),
cash proceeds attributable to the auction of any eligi-
ble frequencies described in section 113(g)(2) of the
National Telecommunications and Information Admin-
istration Organization Act (47 U.S.C. 923(g)(2)) shall
be deposited in the Spectrum Relocation Fund estab-
lished under section 118 of such Act, and shall be
available in accordance with that section.
(ii) CERTAIN OTHER PROCEEDS.—Notwithstanding
subparagraph (A) and except as provided in subpara-
graph (B), in the case of proceeds (including deposits
and upfront payments from successful bidders) attrib-
utable to the auction of eligible frequencies described
in paragraph (2) of section 113(g) of the National Tele-
communications and Information Administration Or-
ganization Act that are required to be auctioned by
section 6401(b)(1)(B) of the Middle Class Tax Relief
and Job Creation Act of 2012, such portion of such
proceeds as is necessary to cover the relocation or
sharing costs (as defined in paragraph (3) of such sec-
tion 113(g)) of Federal entities relocated from such eli-
gible frequencies shall be deposited in the Spectrum
Relocation Fund. The remainder of such proceeds shall
be deposited in the Public Safety Trust Fund estab-
lished by section 6413(a)(1) of the Middle Class Tax
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012.
(E) TRANSFER OF RECEIPTS.—
(i) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.—There is established
in the Treasury of the United States a fund to be
known as the Digital Television Transition and Public
Safety Fund.
(ii) PROCEEDS FOR FUNDS.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), the proceeds (including deposits and
upfront payments from successful bidders) from the
use of a competitive bidding system under this sub-
section with respect to recovered analog spectrum
shall be deposited in the Digital Television Transition
and Public Safety Fund.
(iii) TRANSFER OF AMOUNT TO TREASURY.—On Sep-
tember 30, 2009, the Secretary shall transfer
$7,363,000,000 from the Digital Television Transition
and Public Safety Fund to the general fund of the
Treasury.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00170 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
171 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(iv) RECOVERED ANALOG SPECTRUM.—For purposes
of clause (i), the term ‘‘recovered analog spectrum’’ has
the meaning provided in paragraph (15)(C)(vi).
(F) CERTAIN PROCEEDS DESIGNATED FOR PUBLIC SAFETY
TRUST FUND.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) and ex-
cept as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (D)(ii), the pro-
ceeds (including deposits and upfront payments from suc-
cessful bidders) from the use of a system of competitive
bidding under this subsection pursuant to section
6401(b)(1)(B) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Cre-
ation Act of 2012 shall be deposited in the Public Safety
Trust Fund established by section 6413(a)(1) of such Act.
(G) INCENTIVE AUCTIONS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding subparagraph
(A) and except as provided in subparagraph (B), the
Commission may encourage a licensee to relinquish
voluntarily some or all of its licensed spectrum usage
rights in order to permit the assignment of new initial
licenses subject to flexible-use service rules by sharing
with such licensee a portion, based on the value of the
relinquished rights as determined in the reverse auc-
tion required by clause (ii)(I), of the proceeds (includ-
ing deposits and upfront payments from successful
bidders) from the use of a competitive bidding system
under this subsection.
(ii) LIMITATIONS.—The Commission may not enter
into an agreement for a licensee to relinquish spec-
trum usage rights in exchange for a share of auction
proceeds under clause (i) unless—
(I) the Commission conducts a reverse auction
to determine the amount of compensation that li-
censees would accept in return for voluntarily re-
linquishing spectrum usage rights; and
(II) at least two competing licensees partici-
pate in the reverse auction.
(iii) TREATMENT OF REVENUES.—Notwithstanding
subparagraph (A) and except as provided in subpara-
graph (B), the proceeds (including deposits and up-
front payments from successful bidders) from any auc-
tion, prior to the end of fiscal year 2022, of spectrum
usage rights made available under clause (i) that are
not shared with licensees under such clause shall be
deposited as follows:
(I) $1,750,000,000 of the proceeds from the in-
centive auction of broadcast television spectrum
required by section 6403 of the Middle Class Tax
Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 shall be de-
posited in the TV Broadcaster Relocation Fund es-
tablished by subsection (d)(1) of such section.
(II) All other proceeds shall be deposited—
(aa) prior to the end of fiscal year 2022,
in the Public Safety Trust Fund established
by section 6413(a)(1) of such Act; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00171 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
172Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(bb) after the end of fiscal year 2022, in
the general fund of the Treasury, where such
proceeds shall be dedicated for the sole pur-
pose of deficit reduction.
(iv) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—At least 3
months before any incentive auction conducted under
this subparagraph, the Chairman of the Commission,
in consultation with the Director of the Office of Man-
agement and Budget, shall notify the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress of the methodology for calculating
the amounts that will be shared with licensees under
clause (i).
(v) DEFINITION.—In this subparagraph, the term
‘‘appropriate committees of Congress’’ means—
(I) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate;
(II) the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate;
(III) the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives; and
(IV) the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
(9) USE OF FORMER GOVERNMENT SPECTRUM.—The Com-
mission shall, not later than 5 years after the date of enact-
ment of this subsection, issue licenses and permits pursuant to
this subsection for the use of bands of frequencies that—
(A) in the aggregate span not less than 10 megahertz;
and
(B) have been reassigned from Government use pursu-
ant to part B of the National Telecommunications and In-
formation Administration Organization Act.
(10) AUTHORITY CONTINGENT ON AVAILABILITY OF ADDI-
TIONAL SPECTRUM.—
(A) INITIAL CONDITIONS.—The Commission’s authority
to issue licenses or permits under this subsection shall not
take effect unless—
(i) the Secretary of Commerce has submitted to
the Commission the report required by section
113(d)(1) of the National Telecommunications and In-
formation Administration Organization Act;
(ii) such report recommends for immediate re-
allocation bands of frequencies that, in the aggregate,
span not less than 50 megahertz;
(iii) such bands of frequencies meet the criteria re-
quired by section 113(a) of such Act; and
(iv) the Commission has completed the rule-
making required by section 332(c)(1)(D) of this Act.
(B) SUBSEQUENT CONDITIONS.—The Commission’s au-
thority to issue licenses or permits under this subsection
on and after 2 years after the date of the enactment of this
subsection shall cease to be effective if—
(i) the Secretary of Commerce has failed to submit
the report required by section 113(a) of the National
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00172 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
173 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Telecommunications and Information Administration
Organization Act;
(ii) the President has failed to withdraw and limit
assignments of frequencies as required by paragraphs
(1) and (2) of section 114(a) of such Act;
(iii) the Commission has failed to issue the regula-
tions required by section 115(a) of such Act;
(iv) the Commission has failed to complete and
submit to Congress, not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of this subsection, a study of cur-
rent and future spectrum needs of State and local gov-
ernment public safety agencies through the year 2010,
and a specific plan to ensure that adequate fre-
quencies are made available to public safety licensees;
or (v) the Commission has failed under section
332(c)(3) to grant or deny within the time required by
such section any petition that a State has filed within
90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection;
until such failure has been corrected.
(11) TERMINATION.—The authority of the Commission to
grant a license or permit under this subsection shall expire
March 9, 2023, except that, with respect to the electromagnetic
spectrum identified under section 1004(a) of the Spectrum
Pipeline Act of 2015, such authority shall expire on September
30, 2025, and with respect to the electromagnetic spectrum
identified under section 90008(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act, such authority shall expire on the
date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of that Act.
øParagraph (12) was repealed by section 402(i)(4)(A) of division
P of Public Law 115–141.¿
(13) RECOVERY OF VALUE OF PUBLIC SPECTRUM IN CONNEC-
TION WITH PIONEER PREFERENCES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding paragraph (6)(G),
the Commission shall not award licenses pursuant to a
preferential treatment accorded by the Commission to per-
sons who make significant contributions to the develop-
ment of a new telecommunications service or technology,
except in accordance with the requirements of this para-
graph.
(B) RECOVERY OF VALUE.—The Commission shall re-
cover for the public a portion of the value of the public
spectrum resource made available to such person by re-
quiring such person, as a condition for receipt of the li-
cense, to agree to pay a sum determined by—
(i) identifying the winning bids for the licenses
that the Commission determines are most reasonably
comparable in terms of bandwidth, scope of service
area, usage restrictions, and other technical character-
istics to the license awarded to such person, and ex-
cluding licenses that the Commission determines are
subject to bidding anomalies due to the award of pref-
erential treatment;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00173 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
174Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) dividing each such winning bid by the popu-
lation of its service area (hereinafter referred to as the
per capita bid amount);
(iii) computing the average of the per capita bid
amounts for the licenses identified under clause (i);
(iv) reducing such average amount by 15 percent;
and (v) multiplying the amount determined under
clause (iv) by the population of the service area of the
license obtained by such person.
(C) INSTALLMENTS PERMITTED.—The Commission shall
require such person to pay the sum required by subpara-
graph (B) in a lump sum or in guaranteed installment pay-
ments, with or without royalty payments, over a period of
not more than 5 years.
(D) RULEMAKING ON PIONEER PREFERENCES.—Except
with respect to pending applications described in clause
(iv) of this subparagraph, the Commission shall prescribe
regulations specifying the procedures and criteria by which
the Commission will evaluate applications for preferential
treatment in its licensing processes (by precluding the fil-
ing of mutually exclusive applications) for persons who
make significant contributions to the development of a new
service or to the development of new technologies that sub-
stantially enhance an existing service. Such regulations
shall— (i) specify the procedures and criteria by which
the significance of such contributions will be deter-
mined, after an opportunity for review and verification
by experts in the radio sciences drawn from among
persons who are not employees of the Commission or
by any applicant for such preferential treatment;
(ii) include such other procedures as may be nec-
essary to prevent unjust enrichment by ensuring that
the value of any such contribution justifies any reduc-
tion in the amounts paid for comparable licenses
under this subsection;
(iii) be prescribed not later than 6 months after
the date of enactment of this paragraph;
(iv) not apply to applications that have been ac-
cepted for filing on or before September 1, 1994; and
(v) cease to be effective on the date of the expira-
tion of the Commission’s authority under subpara-
graph (F).
(E) IMPLEMENTATION WITH RESPECT TO PENDING APPLI-
CATIONS.—In applying this paragraph to any broadband li-
censes in the personal communications service awarded
pursuant to the preferential treatment accorded by the
Federal Communications Commission in the Third Report
and Order in General Docket 90–314 (FCC 93–550, re-
leased February 3, 1994)—
(i) the Commission shall not reconsider the award
of preferences in such Third Report and Order, and
the Commission shall not delay the grant of licenses
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00174 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
175 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
based on such awards more than 15 days following the
date of enactment of this paragraph, and the award of
such preferences and licenses shall not be subject to
administrative or judicial review;
(ii) the Commission shall not alter the bandwidth
or service areas designated for such licenses in such
Third Report and Order;
(iii) except as provided in clause (v), the Commis-
sion shall use, as the most reasonably comparable li-
censes for purposes of subparagraph (B)(i), the
broadband licenses in the personal communications
service for blocks A and B for the 20 largest markets
(ranked by population) in which no applicant has ob-
tained preferential treatment;
(iv) for purposes of subparagraph (C), the Com-
mission shall permit guaranteed installment payments
over a period of 5 years, subject to—
(I) the payment only of interest on unpaid bal-
ances during the first 2 years, commencing not
later than 30 days after the award of the license
(including any preferential treatment used in
making such award) is final and no longer subject
to administrative or judicial review, except that no
such payment shall be required prior to the date
of completion of the auction of the comparable li-
censes described in clause (iii); and
(II) payment of the unpaid balance and inter-
est thereon after the end of such 2 years in ac-
cordance with the regulations prescribed by the
Commission; and
(v) the Commission shall recover with respect to
broadband licenses in the personal communications
service an amount under this paragraph that is equal
to not less than $400,000,000, and if such amount is
less than $400,000,000, the Commission shall recover
an amount equal to $400,000,000 by allocating such
amount among the holders of such licenses based on
the population of the license areas held by each li-
censee.
The Commission shall not include in any amounts re-
quired to be collected under clause (v) the interest on un-
paid balances required to be collected under clause (iv).
(F) EXPIRATION.—The authority of the Commission to
provide preferential treatment in licensing procedures (by
precluding the filing of mutually exclusive applications) to
persons who make significant contributions to the develop-
ment of a new service or to the development of new tech-
nologies that substantially enhance an existing service
shall expire on the date of enactment of the Balanced
Budget Act of 1997.
(G) EFFECTIVE DATE.—This paragraph shall be effec-
tive on the date of its enactment and apply to any licenses
issued on or after August 1, 1994, by the Federal Commu-
nications Commission pursuant to any licensing procedure
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00175 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
176Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
that provides preferential treatment (by precluding the fil-
ing of mutually exclusive applications) to persons who
make significant contributions to the development of a new
service or to the development of new technologies that sub-
stantially enhance an existing service.
(14) AUCTION OF RECAPTURED BROADCAST TELEVISION SPEC-
TRUM.— (A) LIMITATIONS ON TERMS OF TERRESTRIAL TELEVISION
BROADCAST LICENSES.—A full-power television broadcast li-
cense that authorizes analog television service may not be
renewed to authorize such service for a period that extends
beyond June 12, 2009.
(B) SPECTRUM REVERSION AND RESALE.—
(i) The Commission shall—
(I) ensure that, as licenses for analog tele-
vision service expire pursuant to subparagraph
(A), each licensee shall cease using electro-
magnetic spectrum assigned to such service ac-
cording to the Commission’s direction; and
(II) reclaim and organize the electromagnetic
spectrum in a manner consistent with the objec-
tives described in paragraph (3) of this subsection.
(ii) Licensees for new services occupying spectrum
reclaimed pursuant to clause (i) shall be assigned in
accordance with this subsection.
(C) C ERTAIN LIMITATIONS ON QUALIFIED BIDDERS PRO-
HIBITED.—In prescribing any regulations relating to the
qualification of bidders for spectrum reclaimed pursuant to
subparagraph (B)(i), the Commission, for any license that
may be used for any digital television service where the
grade A contour of the station is projected to encompass
the entirety of a city with a population in excess of 400,000
(as determined using the 1990 decennial census), shall
not— (i) preclude any party from being a qualified bid-
der for such spectrum on the basis of—
(I) the Commission’s duopoly rule (47 C.F.R.
73.3555(b)); or
(II) the Commission’s newspaper cross-owner-
ship rule (47 C.F.R. 73.3555(d)); or
(ii) apply either such rule to preclude such a party
that is a winning bidder in a competitive bidding for
such spectrum from using such spectrum for digital
television service.
(15) COMMISSION TO DETERMINE TIMING OF AUCTIONS.—
(A) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—Subject to the provisions
of this subsection (including paragraph (11)), but notwith-
standing any other provision of law, the Commission shall
determine the timing of and deadlines for the conduct of
competitive bidding under this subsection, including the
timing of and deadlines for qualifying for bidding; con-
ducting auctions; collecting, depositing, and reporting reve-
nues; and completing licensing processes and assigning li-
censes.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00176 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
177 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) TERMINATION OF PORTIONS OF AUCTIONS 31 AND
44.—Except as provided in subparagraph (C), the Commis-
sion shall not commence or conduct auctions 31 and 44 on
June 19, 2002, as specified in the public notices of March
19, 2002, and March 20, 2002 (DA 02–659 and DA 02–
563).
(C) EXCEPTION.—
(i) BLOCKS EXCEPTED.—Subparagraph (B) shall
not apply to the auction of—
(I) the C-block of licenses on the bands of fre-
quencies located at 710–716 megahertz, and 740–
746 megahertz; or
(II) the D-block of licenses on the bands of fre-
quencies located at 716–722 megahertz.
(ii) ELIGIBLE BIDDERS.—The entities that shall be
eligible to bid in the auction of the C-block and D-
block licenses described in clause (i) shall be those en-
tities that were qualified entities, and that submitted
applications to participate in auction 44, by May 8,
2002, as part of the original auction 44 short form fil-
ing deadline.
(iii) A UCTION DEADLINES FOR EXCEPTED BLOCKS.—
Notwithstanding subparagraph (B), the auction of the
C-block and D-block licenses described in clause (i)
shall be commenced no earlier than August 19, 2002,
and no later than September 19, 2002, and the pro-
ceeds of such auction shall be deposited in accordance
with paragraph (8) not later than December 31, 2002.
øClause (iv) was repealed by section 402(i)(4)(B) of division P
of Public Law 115–141. ¿
(v) ADDITIONAL DEADLINES FOR RECOVERED ANA-
LOG SPECTRUM.—Notwithstanding subparagraph (B),
the Commission shall conduct the auction of the li-
censes for recovered analog spectrum by commencing
the bidding not later than January 28, 2008, and shall
deposit the proceeds of such auction in accordance
with paragraph (8)(E)(ii) not later than June 30, 2008.
(vi) RECOVERED ANALOG SPECTRUM.—For purposes
of clause (v), the term ‘‘recovered analog spectrum’’
means the spectrum between channels 52 and 69, in-
clusive (between frequencies 698 and 806 megahertz,
inclusive) reclaimed from analog television service
broadcasting under paragraph (14), other than—
(I) the spectrum required by section 337 to be
made available for public safety services; and
(II) the spectrum auctioned prior to the date
of enactment of the Digital Television Transition
and Public Safety Act of 2005.
(D) RETURN OF PAYMENTS.—Within one month after
the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Commission
shall return to the bidders for licenses in the A-block, B-
block, and E-block of auction 44 the full amount of all up-
front payments made by such bidders for such licenses.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00177 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
178Sec. 309 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(16) SPECIAL AUCTION PROVISIONS FOR ELIGIBLE FRE-
QUENCIES.—
(A) SPECIAL REGULATIONS.—The Commission shall re-
vise the regulations prescribed under paragraph (4)(F) of
this subsection to prescribe methods by which the total
cash proceeds from any auction of eligible frequencies de-
scribed in section 113(g)(2) of the National Telecommuni-
cations and Information Administration Organization Act
(47 U.S.C. 923(g)(2)) shall at least equal 110 percent of the
total estimated relocation or sharing costs provided to the
Commission pursuant to section 113(g)(4) of such Act.
(B) CONCLUSION OF AUCTIONS CONTINGENT ON MIN-
IMUM PROCEEDS.—The Commission shall not conclude any
auction of eligible frequencies described in section
113(g)(2) of such Act if the total cash proceeds attributable
to such spectrum are less than 110 percent of the total es-
timated relocation or sharing costs provided to the Com-
mission pursuant to section 113(g)(4) of such Act. If the
Commission is unable to conclude an auction for the fore-
going reason, the Commission shall cancel the auction, re-
turn within 45 days after the auction cancellation date any
deposits from participating bidders held in escrow, and ab-
solve such bidders from any obligation to the United
States to bid in any subsequent reauction of such spec-
trum.
(C) AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PRIOR TO DEAUTHORIZATION.—
In any auction conducted under the regulations required
by subparagraph (A), the Commission may grant a license
assigned for the use of eligible frequencies prior to the ter-
mination of an eligible Federal entity’s authorization.
However, the Commission shall condition such license by
requiring that the licensee cannot cause harmful inter-
ference to such Federal entity until such entity’s author-
ization has been terminated by the National Telecommuni-
cations and Information Administration.
(17) C ERTAIN CONDITIONS ON AUCTION PARTICIPATION PRO-
HIBITED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, the Commission may not prevent a person from
participating in a system of competitive bidding under this
subsection if such person—
(i) complies with all the auction procedures and
other requirements to protect the auction process es-
tablished by the Commission; and
(ii) either—
(I) meets the technical, financial, character,
and citizenship qualifications that the Commission
may require under section 303(l)(1), 308(b), or 310
to hold a license; or
(II) would meet such license qualifications by
means approved by the Commission prior to the
grant of the license.
(B) CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY.—Nothing in sub-
paragraph (A) affects any authority the Commission has to
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00178 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
179 Sec. 309COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
adopt and enforce rules of general applicability, including
rules concerning spectrum aggregation that promote com-
petition.
(18) ESTIMATE OF UPCOMING AUCTIONS.—
(A) Not later than September 30, 2018, and annually
thereafter, the Commission shall make publicly available
an estimate of what systems of competitive bidding author-
ized under this subsection may be initiated during the up-
coming 12-month period.
(B) The estimate under subparagraph (A) shall, to the
extent possible, identify the bands of frequencies the Com-
mission expects to be included in each such system of com-
petitive bidding.
(k) BROADCAST STATION RENEWAL PROCEDURES.—
(1) STANDARDS FOR RENEWAL.—If the licensee of a broad-
cast station submits an application to the Commission for re-
newal of such license, the Commission shall grant the applica-
tion if it finds, with respect to that station, during the pre-
ceding term of its license—
(A) the station has served the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity;
(B) there have been no serious violations by the li-
censee of this Act or the rules and regulations of the Com-
mission; and
(C) there have been no other violations by the licensee
of this Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission
which, taken together, would constitute a pattern of abuse.
(2) CONSEQUENCE OF FAILURE TO MEET STANDARD.—If any
licensee of a broadcast station fails to meet the requirements
of this subsection, the Commission may deny the application
for renewal in accordance with paragraph (3), or grant such ap-
plication on terms and conditions as are appropriate, including
renewal for a term less than the maximum otherwise per-
mitted.
(3) STANDARDS FOR DENIAL.—If the Commission deter-
mines, after notice and opportunity for a hearing as provided
in subsection (e), that a licensee has failed to meet the require-
ments specified in paragraph (1) and that no mitigating factors
justify the imposition of lesser sanctions, the Commission
shall— (A) issue an order denying the renewal application
filed by such licensee under section 308; and
(B) only thereafter accept and consider such applica-
tions for a construction permit as may be filed under sec-
tion 308 specifying the channel or broadcasting facilities of
the former licensee.
(4) COMPETITOR CONSIDERATION PROHIBITED.—In making
the determinations specified in paragraph (1) or (2), the Com-
mission shall not consider whether the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity might be served by the grant of a license
to a person other than the renewal applicant.
(l) APPLICABILITY OF COMPETITIVE BIDDING TO PENDING COM-
PARATIVE LICENSING CASES.—With respect to competing applica-
tions for initial licenses or construction permits for commercial
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00179 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
180Sec. 310 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
radio or television stations that were filed with the Commission be-
fore July 1, 1997, the Commission shall—
(1) have the authority to conduct a competitive bidding
proceeding pursuant to subsection (j) to assign such license or
permit;
(2) treat the persons filing such applications as the only
persons eligible to be qualified bidders for purposes of such
proceeding; and
(3) waive any provisions of its regulations necessary to per-
mit such persons to enter an agreement to procure the removal
of a conflict between their applications during the 180-day pe-
riod beginning on the date of enactment of the Balanced Budg-
et Act of 1997.
SEC. 310. ø47 U.S.C. 310¿ LIMITATION ON HOLDING AND TRANSFER OF
LICENSES.
(a) The station license required under this Act shall not be
granted to or held by any foreign government or the representative
thereof.
(b) No broadcast or common carrier or aeronautical en route or
aeronautical fixed radio station license shall be granted to or held
by— (1) any alien or the representative of any alien;
(2) any corporation organized under the laws of any for-
eign government;
(3) any corporation of which more than one-fifth of the cap-
ital stock is owned of record or voted by aliens or their rep-
resentatives or by a foreign government or representative
thereof or by any corporation organized under the laws of a for-
eign country;
(4) any corporation directly or indirectly controlled by any
other corporation of which more than one-fourth of the capital
stock is owned of record or voted by aliens, their representa-
tives, or by a foreign government or representative thereof, or
by any corporation organized under the laws of a foreign coun-
try, if the Commission finds that the public interest will be
served by the refusal or revocation of such license.
(c) In addition to amateur station licenses which the Commis-
sion may issue to aliens pursuant to this Act, the Commission may
issue authorizations, under such conditions and terms as it may
prescribe, to permit an alien licensed by his government as an
amateur radio operator to operate his amateur radio station li-
censed by his government in the United States, its possessions, and
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico provided there is in effect a mul-
tilateral or bilateral agreement, to which the United States and the
alien’s government are parties, for such operation on a reciprocal
basis by United States amateur radio operators. Other provisions
of this Act and of the Administrative Procedure Act shall not be ap-
plicable to any request or application for or modification, suspen-
sion, or cancellation of any such authorization.
(d) No construction permit or station license, or any rights
thereunder, shall be transferred, assigned, or disposed of in any
manner, voluntarily or involuntarily, directly or indirectly, or by
transfer of control of any corporation holding such permit or li-
cense, to any person except upon application to the Commission
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00180 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
181 Sec. 311COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
and upon finding by the Commission that the public interest, con-
venience, and necessity will be served thereby. Any such applica-
tion shall be disposed of as if the proposed transferee or assignee
were making application under section 308 for the permit or license
in question; but in acting thereon the Commission may not con-
sider whether the public interest, convenience, and necessity might
be served by the transfer, assignment, or disposal of the permit or
license to a person other than the proposed transferee or assignee.
(e)(1) In the case of any broadcast station, and any ownership
interest therein, which is excluded from the regional concentration
rules by reason of the savings provision for existing facilities pro-
vided by the First Report and Order adopted March 9, 1977 (docket
No. 20548; 42 Fed. Reg. 16145), the exclusion shall not terminate
solely by reason of changes made in the technical facilities of the
station to improve its service.
(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘regional con-
centration rules’’ means the provisions of sections 73.35, 73.240,
and 73.636 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect
June 1, 1983), which prohibit any party from directly or indirectly
owning, operating, or controlling three broadcast stations in one or
several services where any two of such stations are within 100
miles of the third (measured city-to-city), and where there is a pri-
mary service contour overlap of any of the stations.
SEC. 311. ø47 U.S.C. 311¿ SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS WITH RESPECT TO
CERTAIN APPLICATIONS IN THE BROADCASTING SERV-
ICE.
(a) When there is filed with the Commission any application to
which section 309(b)(1) applies, for an instrument of authorization
for a station in the broadcasting service, the applicant—
(1) shall give notice of such filing in the principal area
which is served or is to be served by the station; and
(2) if the application is formally designated for hearing in
accordance with section 309, shall give notice of such hearing
in such area at least ten days before commencement of such
hearing.
The Commission shall by rule prescribe the form and content of the
notices to be given in compliance with this subsection, and the
manner and frequency with which such notices shall be given.
(b) Hearings referred to in subsection (a) may be held at such
places as the Commission shall determine to be appropriate, and
in making such determination in any case the Commission shall
consider whether the public interest, convenience, or necessity will
be served by conducting the hearing at a place in, or in the vicinity
of, the principal area to be served by the station involved.
(c)(1) If there are pending before the Commission two or more
applications for a permit for construction of a broadcasting station,
only one of which can be granted, it shall be unlawful, without ap-
proval of the Commission, for the applicants or any of them to ef-
fectuate an agreement whereby one or more of such applicants
withdraws his or their application or applications.
(2) The request for Commission approval in any such case shall
be made in writing jointly by all the parties to the agreement. Such
request shall contain or be accompanied by full information with
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00181 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
182Sec. 312 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
respect to the agreement, set forth in such detail, form, and man-
ner as the Commission shall by rule require.
(3) The Commission shall approve the agreement only if it de-
termines that (A) the agreement is consistent with the public inter-
est, convenience, or necessity; and (B) no party to the agreement
filed its application for the purpose of reaching or carrying out such
agreement.
(4) For the purposes of this subsection an application shall be
deemed to be ‘‘pending’’ before the Commission from the time such
application is filed with the Commission until an order of the Com-
mission granting or denying it is no longer subject to rehearing by
the Commission or to review by any court.
(d)(1) If there are pending before the Commission an applica-
tion for the renewal of a license granted for the operation of a
broadcasting station and one or more applications for a construc-
tion permit relating to such station, only one of which can be grant-
ed, it shall be unlawful, without approval of the Commission, for
the applicants or any of them to effectuate an agreement whereby
one or more of such applicants withdraws his or their application
or applications in exchange for the payment of money, or the trans-
fer of assets or any other thing of value by the remaining applicant
or applicants.
(2) The request for Commission approval in any such case shall
be made in writing jointly by all the parties to the agreement. Such
request shall contain or be accompanied by full information with
respect to the agreement, set forth in such detail, form, and man-
ner as the Commission shall require.
(3) The Commission shall approve the agreement only if it de-
termines that (A) the agreement is consistent with the public inter-
est, convenience, or necessity; and (B) no party to the agreement
filed its application for the purpose of reaching or carrying our such
agreement.
(4) For purposes of this subsection, an application shall be
deemed to be pending before the Commission from the time such
application is filed with the Commission until an order of the Com-
mission granting or denying it is no longer subject to rehearing by
the Commission or to review by any court.
SEC. 312. ø47 U.S.C. 312¿ ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS.
(a) The Commission may revoke any station license or con-
struction permit—
(1) for false statements knowingly made either in the ap-
plication or in any statement of fact which may be required
pursuant to section 308;
(2) because of conditions coming to the attention of the
Commission which would warrant it in refusing to grant a li-
cense or permit on an original application;
(3) for willful or repeated failure to operate substantially
as set forth in the license;
(4) for willful or repeated violation of, or willful or re-
peated failure to observe any provision of this Act or any rule
or regulation of the Commission authorized by this Act or by
a treaty ratified by the United States;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00182 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
183 Sec. 312COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
27 5 U.S.C. 558(c)(1) and (2)
(5) for violation of or failure to observe any final cease and
desist order issued by the Commission under this section;
(6) for violation of section 1304, 1343, or 1464 of title 18
of the United States Code; or
(7) for willful or repeated failure to allow reasonable access
to or to permit purchase of reasonable amounts of time for the
use of a broadcasting station, other than a non-commercial
educational broadcast station, by a legally qualified candidate
for Federal elective office on behalf of his candidacy.
(b) Where any person (1) has failed to operate substantially as
set forth in a license, (2) has violated or failed to observe any of
the provisions of this Act, or section 1304, 1343, or 1464 of title 18
of the United States Code, or (3) has violated or failed to observe
any rule or regulation of the Commission authorized by this Act or
by a treaty ratified by the United States, the Commission may
order such person to cease and desist from such action.
(c) Before revoking a license or permit pursuant to subsection
(a), or issuing a cease and desist order pursuant to subsection (b),
the Commission shall serve upon the licensee, permittee, or person
involved an order to show cause why an order of revocation or a
cease and desist order should not be issued. Any such order to
show cause shall contain a statement of the matters with respect
to which the Commission is inquiring and shall call upon said li-
censee, permittee, or person to appear before the Commission at a
time and place stated in the order, but in no event less than thirty
days after the receipt of such order, and give evidence upon the
matter specified therein; except that where safety of life or prop-
erty is involved, the Commission may provide in the order for a
shorter period. If after hearing, or a waiver thereof, the Commis-
sion determines that an order of revocation or a cease and desist
order should issue, it shall issue such order, which shall include a
statement of the findings of the Commission and the grounds and
reasons therefor and specify the effective date of the order, and
shall cause the same to be served on said licensee, permittee, or
person.
(d) In any case where a hearing is conducted pursuant to the
provisions of this section, both the burden of proceeding with the
introduction of evidence and the burden of proof shall be upon the
Commission.
(e) The provisions of section 9(b) 27 of the Administrative Proce-
dure Act which apply with respect to the institution of any pro-
ceeding for the revocation of a license or permit shall apply also
with respect to the institution, under this section, of any pro-
ceeding for the issuance of a cease and desist order.
(f) For purposes of this section:
(1) The term ‘‘willful’’, when used with reference to the
commission or omission of any act, means the conscious and
deliberate commission or omission of such act, irrespective of
any intent to violate any provision of this Act or any rule or
regulation of the Commission authorized by this Act or by a
treaty ratified by the United States.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00183 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
184Sec. 313 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) The term ‘‘repeated’’, when used with reference to the
commission or omission of any act, means the commission or
omission of such act more than once or, if such commission or
omission is continuous, for more than one day.
(g) If a broadcasting station fails to transmit broadcast signals
for any consecutive 12-month period, then the station license grant-
ed for the operation of that broadcast station expires at the end of
that period, notwithstanding any provision, term, or condition of
the license to the contrary, except that the Commission may extend
or reinstate such station license if the holder of the station license
prevails in an administrative or judicial appeal, the applicable law
changes, or for any other reason to promote equity and fairness.
Any broadcast license revoked or terminated in Alaska in a pro-
ceeding related to broadcasting via translator, microwave, or other
alternative signal delivery is reinstated.
SEC. 313. ø47 U.S.C. 313¿ APPLICATION OF ANTITRUST LAWS; REFUSAL
OF LICENSES AND PERMITS IN CERTAIN CASES.
(a) All laws of the United States relating to unlawful restraints
and monopolies and to combinations, contracts or agreements in re-
straint of trade are hereby declared to be applicable to the manu-
facture and sale of and to trade in radio apparatus and devices en-
tering into or affecting interstate or foreign commerce and to inter-
state or foreign radio communications. Whenever in any suit, ac-
tion, or proceeding, civil or criminal, brought under the provisions
of any of said laws or in any proceedings brought to enforce or to
review findings and orders of the Federal Trade Commission or
other governmental agency in respect of any matters as to which
said Commission or other governmental agency is by law author-
ized to act, any licensee shall be found guilty of the violation of the
provisions of such laws or any of them, the court, in addition to the
penalties imposed by said laws, may adjudge, order, and/or decree
that the license of such licensee shall, as of the date the decree or
judgment becomes finally effective or as of such date as the said
decree shall fix, be revoked and that all rights under such license
shall thereupon cease: Provided, however, That such licensee shall
have the same right of appeal or review, as is provided by law in
respect of other decrees and judgments of said court.
(b) The Commission is hereby directed to refuse a station li-
cense and/or the permit hereinafter required for the construction of
a station to any person (or to any person directly or indirectly con-
trolled by such person) whose license has been revoked by a court
under this section.
SEC. 314. ø47 U.S.C. 314¿ PRESERVATION OF COMPETITION IN COM-
MERCE.
After the effective date of this Act no person engaged directly,
or indirectly through any person directly or indirectly controlling or
controlled by, or under direct or indirect common control with, such
person, or through an agent, or otherwise, in the business of trans-
mitting and/or receiving for hire energy, communications, or sig-
nals by radio in accordance with the terms of the license issued
under this Act, shall by purchase, lease, construction, or otherwise,
directly or indirectly, acquire, own, control, or operate any cable or
wire telegraph or telephone line or system between any place in
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00184 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
185 Sec. 315COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
any State, Territory, or possession of the United States or in the
District of Columbia, and any place in any foreign country, or shall
acquire, own, or control any part of the stock or other capital share
or any interest in the physical property and/or other assets of any
such cable, wire, telegraph, or telephone line or system, if in either
case the purpose is and/or the effect thereof may be to substantially
lessen competition or to restrain commerce between any place in
any State, Territory, or possession of the United States, or in the
District of Columbia, and any place in any foreign country, or un-
lawfully to create monopoly in any line of commerce; nor shall any
person engaged directly, or indirectly through any person directly
or indirectly controlling or controlled by, or under direct or indirect
common control with, such person, or through an agent, or other-
wise, in the business of transmitting and/or receiving for hire mes-
sages by any cable, wire, telegraph, or telephone line or system (a)
between any place in any State, Territory, or possession of the
United States, or in the District of Columbia, and any place in any
other State, Territory, or possession of the United States; or (b) be-
tween any place in any State, Territory, or possession of the United
States, or in the District of Columbia, and any place in any foreign
country, by purchase, lease, construction, or otherwise, directly or
indirectly acquire, own, control, or operate any station or the appa-
ratus therein, or any system for transmitting and/or receiving radio
communications or signals between any place in any State, Terri-
tory, or possession of the United States, or in the District of Colum-
bia, and any place in any foreign country, or shall acquire, own, or
control any part of the stock or other capital share of any interest
in the physical property and/or other assets of any such radio sta-
tion, apparatus, or system, if in either case, the purpose is and/or
the effect thereof may be to substantially lessen competition or to
restrain commerce between any place in any State, Territory, or
possession of the United States, or in the District of Columbia, and
any place in any foreign country, or unlawfully to create monopoly
in any line of commerce.
SEC. 315. ø47 U.S.C. 315¿ FACILITIES FOR CANDIDATES FOR PUBLIC OF-
FICE.
(a) If any licensee shall permit any person who is a legally
qualified candidate for any public office to use a broadcasting sta-
tion, he shall afford equal opportunities to all other such can-
didates for that office in the use of such broadcasting station: Pro-
vided, That such licensee shall have no power of censorship over
the material broadcast under the provision of this section. No obli-
gation is hereby imposed under this subsection upon any licensee
to allow the use of its station by any such candidate. Appearance
by a legally qualified candidate on any—
(1) bona fide newscast,
(2) bona fide news interview,
(3) bona fide news documentary (if the appearance of the
candidate is incidental to the presentation of the subject or
subjects covered by the news documentary), or
(4) on-the-spot coverage of bona fide news events (includ-
ing but not limited to political conventions and activities inci-
dental thereto),
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00185 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
186Sec. 315 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
28 The Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (PL 107–155) amended section 315 of the
Communications Act of 1934. Section 201(b) of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002
contained the following provision:
(b) ø2 U.S.C. 434 note¿R ESPONSIBILITIES OF F EDERAL C OMMUNICATIONS C OMMISSION.—The
Federal Communications Commission shall compile and maintain any information the Federal
Election Commission may require to carry out section 304(f) of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (as added by subsection (a)), and shall make such information available to the public
on the Federal Communication Commission’s website.
shall not be deemed to be use of a broadcasting station within the
meaning of this subsection. Nothing in the foregoing sentence shall
be construed as relieving broadcasters, in connection with the pres-
entation of newscasts, news interviews, news documentaries, and
on-the-spot coverage of news events, from the obligation imposed
upon them under this Act to operate in the public interest and to
afford reasonable opportunity for the discussion of conflicting views
on issues of public importance.
(b) 28 CHARGES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The charges made for the use of any
broadcasting station by any person who is a legally qualified
candidate for any public office in connection with his campaign
for nomination for election, or election, to such office shall not
exceed—
(A) subject to paragraph (2), during the forty-five days pre-
ceding the date of a primary or primary runoff election and
during the sixty days preceding the date of a general or special
election in which such person is a candidate, the lowest unit
charge of the station for the same class and amount of time for
the same period; and
(B) at any other time, the charges made for comparable
use of such station by other users thereof.
(2) CONTENT OF BROADCASTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a candidate for Fed-
eral office, such candidate shall not be entitled to receive
the rate under paragraph (1)(A) for the use of any broad-
casting station unless the candidate provides written cer-
tification to the broadcast station that the candidate (and
any authorized committee of the candidate) shall not make
any direct reference to another candidate for the same of-
fice, in any broadcast using the rights and conditions of ac-
cess under this Act, unless such reference meets the re-
quirements of subparagraph (C) or (D).
(B) LIMITATION ON CHARGES.—If a candidate for Fed-
eral office (or any authorized committee of such candidate)
makes a reference described in subparagraph (A) in any
broadcast that does not meet the requirements of subpara-
graph (C) or (D), such candidate shall not be entitled to re-
ceive the rate under paragraph (1)(A) for such broadcast or
any other broadcast during any portion of the 45-day and
60-day periods described in paragraph (1)(A), that occur on
or after the date of such broadcast, for election to such of-
fice. (C) TELEVISION BROADCASTS.—A candidate meets the
requirements of this subparagraph if, in the case of a tele-
vision broadcast, at the end of such broadcast there ap-
pears simultaneously, for a period no less than 4 seconds—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00186 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
187 Sec. 315COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
29 Effective November 6, 2002, section 504 of the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002
(P.L. 107–155; 116 Stat. 115) amends section 315 by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as sub-
sections (f) and (g), respectively, and inserting after subsection (d) a new subsection (e), shown
above. The amendment probably should have been to insert subsection (e) at the end of section
315, since subsections (e) and (f) do not appear in law.
(i) a clearly identifiable photographic or similar
image of the candidate; and
(ii) a clearly readable printed statement, identi-
fying the candidate and stating that the candidate has
approved the broadcast and that the candidate’s au-
thorized committee paid for the broadcast.
(D) RADIO BROADCASTS.—A candidate meets the re-
quirements of this subparagraph if, in the case of a radio
broadcast, the broadcast includes a personal audio state-
ment by the candidate that identifies the candidate, the of-
fice the candidate is seeking, and indicates that the can-
didate has approved the broadcast.
(E) CERTIFICATION.—Certifications under this section
shall be provided and certified as accurate by the can-
didate (or any authorized committee of the candidate) at
the time of purchase.
(F) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this paragraph, the
terms ‘‘authorized committee’’ and ‘‘Federal office’’ have
the meanings given such terms by section 301 of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 (2 U.S.C. 431).
(c) For purposes of this section—
(1) the term ‘‘broadcasting station’’ includes a community
antenna television system; and
(2) the term ‘‘licensee’’ and ‘‘station licensee’’ when used
with respect to a community antenna television system mean
the operator of such system.
(d) The Commission shall prescribe appropriate rules and regu-
lations to carry out the provisions of this section.
(e) 29 POLITICAL RECORD.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A licensee shall maintain, and make
available for public inspection, a complete record of a request
to purchase broadcast time that—
(A) is made by or on behalf of a legally qualified can-
didate for public office; or
(B) communicates a message relating to any political
matter of national importance, including—
(i) a legally qualified candidate;
(ii) any election to Federal office; or
(iii) a national legislative issue of public impor-
tance.
(2) CONTENTS OF RECORD.—A record maintained under
paragraph (1) shall contain information regarding—
(A) whether the request to purchase broadcast time is
accepted or rejected by the licensee;
(B) the rate charged for the broadcast time;
(C) the date and time on which the communication is
aired;
(D) the class of time that is purchased;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00187 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
188Sec. 316 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(E) the name of the candidate to which the commu-
nication refers and the office to which the candidate is
seeking election, the election to which the communication
refers, or the issue to which the communication refers (as
applicable);
(F) in the case of a request made by, or on behalf of,
a candidate, the name of the candidate, the authorized
committee of the candidate, and the treasurer of such com-
mittee; and
(G) in the case of any other request, the name of the
person purchasing the time, the name, address, and phone
number of a contact person for such person, and a list of
the chief executive officers or members of the executive
committee or of the board of directors of such person.
(3) TIME TO MAINTAIN FILE.—The information required
under this subsection shall be placed in a political file as soon
as possible and shall be retained by the licensee for a period
of not less than 2 years.
SEC. 316. ø47 U.S.C. 316¿ MODIFICATION BY COMMISSION OF CON-
STRUCTION PERMITS OR LICENSES.
(a)(1) Any station license or construction permit may be modi-
fied by the Commission either for a limited time or for the duration
of the term thereof, if in the judgment of the Commission such ac-
tion will promote the public interest, convenience, and necessity, or
the provisions of this Act or of any treaty ratified by the United
States will be more fully complied with. No such order of modifica-
tion shall become final until the holder of the license or permit
shall have been notified in writing of the proposed action and the
grounds and reasons therefor, and shall be given reasonable oppor-
tunity, of at least thirty days, to protest such proposed order of
modification; except that, where safety of life or property is in-
volved, the Commission may by order provide, for a shorter period
of notice.
(2) Any other licensee or permittee who believes its license or
permit would be modified by the proposed action may also protest
the proposed action before its effective date.
(3) A protest filed pursuant to this subsection shall be subject
to the requirements of section 309 for petitions to deny.
(b) In any case where a hearing is conducted pursuant to the
provisions of this section, both the burden of proceeding with the
introduction of evidence and the burden of proof shall be upon the
Commission; except that, with respect to any issue that addresses
the question of whether the proposed action would modify the li-
cense or permit of a person described in subsection (a)(2), such bur-
dens shall be as determined by the Commission.
SEC. 317. ø47 U.S.C. 317¿ ANNOUNCEMENT WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN
MATTER BROADCAST.
(a)(1) All matter broadcast by any radio station for which any
money, service or other valuable consideration is directly or indi-
rectly paid, or promised to or charged or accepted by, the station
so broadcasting, from any person, shall, at the time the same is so
broadcast, be announced as paid for or furnished, as the case may
be, by such person: Provided, That ‘‘service or other valuable con-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00188 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
189 Sec. 319COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
sideration’’ shall not include any service or property furnished
without charge or at a nominal charge for use on, or in connection
with, a broadcast unless it is so furnished in consideration for an
identification in a broadcast of any person, product, service, trade-
mark, or brand name beyond an identification which is reasonably
related to the use of such service or property on the broadcast.
(2) Nothing in this section shall preclude the Commission from
requiring that an appropriate announcement shall be made at the
time of the broadcast in the case of any political program or any
program involving the discussion of any controversial issue for
which any films, records, transcriptions, talent, scripts, or other
material or service of any kind have been furnished, without
charge or at a nominal charge, directly or indirectly, as an induce-
ment to the broadcast of such program.
(b) In any case where a report has been made to a radio sta-
tion, as required by section 507 of this Act, of circumstances which
would have required an announcement under this section had the
consideration been received by such radio station, an appropriate
announcement shall be made by such radio station.
(c) The licensee of each radio station shall exercise reasonable
diligence to obtain from its employees, and from other persons with
whom it deals directly in connection with any program or program
matter for broadcast, information to enable such licensee to make
the announcement required by this section.
(d) The Commission may waive the requirement of an an-
nouncement as provided in this section in any case or class of cases
with respect to which it determines that the public interest, con-
venience, or necessity does not require the broadcasting of such an-
nouncement.
(e) The Commission shall prescribe appropriate rules and regu-
lations to carry out the provisions of this section.
SEC. 318. ø47 U.S.C. 318¿ OPERATION OF TRANSMITTING APPARATUS.
The actual operation of all transmitting apparatus in any radio
station for which a station license is required by this Act shall be
carried on only by a person holding an operator’s license issued
hereunder, and no person shall operate any such apparatus in such
station except under and in accordance with an operator’s license
issued to him by the Commission: Provided, however, That the
Commission if it shall find that the public interest, convenience, or
necessity will be served thereby may waive or modify the foregoing
provisions of this section for the operation of any station except (1)
stations for which licensed operators are required by international
agreement, (2) stations for which licensed operators are required
for safety purposes, and (3) stations operated as common carriers
on frequencies below thirty thousand kilocycles: Provided further,
That the Commission shall have power to make special regulations
governing the granting of licenses for the use of automatic radio de-
vices and for the operation of such devices.
SEC. 319. ø47 U.S.C. 319¿ CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
(a) No license shall be issued under the authority of this Act
for the operation of any station unless a permit for its construction
has been granted by the Commission. The application for a con-
struction permit shall set forth such facts as the Commission by
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00189 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
190Sec. 320 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
regulation may prescribe as to the citizenship, character, and the
financial, technical, and other ability of the applicant to construct
and operate the station, the ownership and location of the proposed
station and of the station or stations with which it is proposed to
communicate, the frequencies desired to be used, the hours of the
day or other periods of time during which it is proposed to operate
the station, the purpose for which the station is to be used, the
type of transmitting apparatus to be used, the power to be used,
the date upon which the station is expected to be completed and
in operation, and such other information as the Commission may
require. Such application shall be signed by the applicant in any
manner or form, including by electronic means, as the Commission
may prescribe by regulation.
(b) Such permit for construction shall show specifically the ear-
liest and latest dates between which the actual operation of such
station is expected to begin, and shall provide that said permit will
be automatically forfeited if the station is not ready for operation
within the time specified or within such further time as the Com-
mission may allow, unless prevented by causes not under the con-
trol of the grantee.
(c) Upon the completion of any station for the construction or
continued construction of which a permit has been granted, and
upon it being made to appear to the Commission that all the terms,
conditions, and obligations set forth in the application and permit
have been fully met, and that no cause or circumstance arising or
first coming to the knowledge of the Commission since the granting
of the permit would, in the judgment of the Commission, make the
operation of such station against the public interest, the Commis-
sion shall issue a license to the lawful holder of said permit for the
operation of said station. Said license shall conform generally to
the terms of said permit. The provisions of section 309 (a), (b), (c),
(d), (e), (f), and (g) shall not apply with respect any station license
the issuance of which is provided for and governed by the provi-
sions of this subsection.
(d) A permit for construction shall not be required for Govern-
ment stations, amateur stations, or mobile stations. A permit for
construction shall not be required for public coast stations, pri-
vately owned fixed microwave stations, or stations licensed to com-
mon carriers, unless the Commission determines that the public in-
terest, convenience, and necessity would be served by requiring
such permits for any such stations. With respect to any broad-
casting station, the Commission shall not have any authority to
waive the requirement of a permit for construction, except that the
Commission may by regulation determine that a permit shall not
be required for minor changes in the facilities of authorized broad-
cast stations. With respect to any other station or class of stations,
the Commission shall not waive the requirement for a construction
permit unless the Commission determines that the public interest,
convenience, and necessity would be served by such a waiver.
SEC. 320. ø47 U.S.C. 320¿ DESIGNATION OF STATIONS LIABLE TO INTER-
FERE WITH DISTRESS SIGNALS.
The Commission is authorized to designate from time to time
radio stations the communications or signals of which, in its opin-
ion, are liable to interfere with the transmission or reception of dis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00190 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
191 Sec. 324COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tress signals of ships. Such stations are required to keep a licensed
radio operator listening in on the frequencies designated for signals
of distress and radio communications relating thereto during the
entire period the transmitter of such station is in operation.
SEC. 321. ø47 U.S.C. 321¿ DISTRESS SIGNALS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
(a) The transmitting set in a radio station on shipboard may
be adjusted in such a manner as to produce a maximum of radi-
ation, irrespective of the amount of interference which may thus be
caused, when such station is sending radio communications or sig-
nals of distress and radio communications relating thereto.
(b) All radio stations, including Government stations and sta-
tions on board foreign vessels when within the territorial waters of
the United States, shall give absolute priority to radio communica-
tions or signals relating to ships in distress; shall cease all sending
on frequencies which will interfere with hearing a radio commu-
nication or signal of distress, and, except when engaged in answer-
ing or aiding the ship in distress, shall refrain from sending any
radio communications or signals until there is assurance that no
interference will be caused with the radio communications or sig-
nals relating thereto, and shall assist the vessel in distress, so far
as possible, by complying with its instructions.
SEC. 322. ø47 U.S.C. 322¿ INTERCOMMUNICATION IN MOBILE SERVICE.
Every land station open to general public service between the
coast and vessels or aircraft at sea shall, within the scope of its
normal operations, be bound to exchange radio communications or
signals with any ship or aircraft station at sea; and each station
on shipboard or aircraft at sea shall, within the scope of its normal
operations, be bound to exchange radio communications or signals
with any other station on shipboard or aircraft at sea or with any
land station open to general public service between the coast and
vessels or aircraft at sea: Provided, That such exchange of radio
communication shall be without distinction as to radio systems or
instruments adopted by each station.
SEC. 323. ø47 U.S.C. 323¿ INTERFERENCE BETWEEN GOVERNMENT AND
COMMERCIAL STATIONS.
(a) At all places where Government and private or commercial
radio stations on land operate in such close proximity that inter-
ference with the work of Government stations cannot be avoided
when they are operating simultaneously, such private or commer-
cial stations as do interfere with the transmission or reception of
radio communications or signals by the Government stations con-
cerned shall not use their transmitters during the first fifteen min-
utes of each hour, local standard time.
(b) The Government stations for which the above-mentioned di-
vision of time is established shall transmit radio communications
or signals only during the first fifteen minutes of each hour, local
standard time, except in case of signals or radio communications
relating to vessels in distress and vessel requests for information
as to course, location, or compass direction.
SEC. 324. ø47 U.S.C. 324¿ USE OF MINIMUM POWER.
In all circumstances, except in case of radio communications or
signals relating to vessels in distress, all radio stations, including
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00191 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
192Sec. 325 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
those owned and operated by the United States, shall use the min-
imum amount of power necessary to carry out the communication
desired.
SEC. 325. ø47 U.S.C. 325¿ FALSE DISTRESS SIGNALS; REBROADCASTING;
STUDIOS OF FOREIGN STATIONS.
(a) No person within the jursidiction of the United States shall
knowingly utter or transmit, or cause to be uttered or transmitted,
any false or fraudulent signals of distress, or communication relat-
ing thereto, nor shall any broadcasting station rebroadcast the pro-
gram or any part thereof of another broadcasting station without
the express authority of the originating station.
(b)(1) No cable system or other multichannel video program-
ming distributor shall retransmit the signal of a broadcasting sta-
tion, or any part thereof, except—
(A) with the express authority of the originating station;
(B) under section 614, in the case of a station electing, in
accordance with this subsection, to assert the right to carriage
under such section; or
(C) under section 338, in the case of a station electing, in
accordance with this subsection, to assert the right to carriage
under such section.
(2) This subsection shall not apply—
(A) to retransmission of the signal of a noncommercial tele-
vision broadcast station;
(B) to retransmission of the signal of a television broadcast
station outside the station’s local market by a satellite carrier
directly to its subscribers, if—
(i) such station was a superstation on May 1, 1991;
(ii) as of July 1, 1998, such station was retransmitted
by a satellite carrier under the statutory license of section
119 of title 17, United States Code; and
(iii) the satellite carrier complies with any network
nonduplication, syndicated exclusivity, and sports blackout
rules adopted by the Commission under section 339(b) of
this Act;
(C) to retransmission of the signals of network stations di-
rectly to a home satellite antenna under the statutory license
of section 119 of title 17, United States Code;
(D) to retransmission by a cable operator or other multi-
channel video provider, other than a satellite carrier, of the
signal of a television broadcast station outside the station’s
local market if such signal was obtained from a satellite carrier
and— (i) the originating station was a superstation on May
1, 1991; and
(ii) as of July 1, 1998, such station was retransmitted
by a satellite carrier under the statutory license of section
119 of title 17, United States Code; or
(E) during the 6-month period beginning on the date of the
enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act of
1999, to the retransmission of the signal of a television broad-
cast station within the station’s local market by a satellite car-
rier directly to its subscribers under the statutory license of
section 122 of title 17, United States Code.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00192 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
193 Sec. 325COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
30 Section 1003(c)(1) of division P of Public Law 116–94 amended paragraph (2) by striking
‘‘, and the term ‘local market’ has the meaning given that term in section 122(j) of such title’’.
Subsection (d) of such section 1003 provides ‘‘The amendments made by this section, and the
regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission under such amendments,
shall not take effect before January 1 of the calendar year after the calendar year in which this
Act is enacted’’ [Enactment date was December 20, 2019].
31 Subsections (a) and (c)(2) of section 1003 of division P of Public Law 116–94 amended sub-
paragraph (C) of section 325(b)(3). Subsection (d) of such section 1003 provides ‘‘The amend-
ments made by this section, and the regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications
Commission under such amendments, shall not take effect before January 1 of the calendar year
after the calendar year in which this Act is enacted’’ [Enactment date was December 20, 2019]
For purposes of this paragraph, the terms ‘‘satellite carrier’’ and
‘‘superstation’’ have the meanings given those terms, respectively,
in section 119(d) of title 17, United States Code, as in effect on the
date of the enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992 30 .
(3)(A) Within 45 days after the date of enactment of the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, the
Commission shall commence a rulemaking proceeding to establish
regulations to govern the exercise by television broadcast stations
of the right to grant retransmission consent under this subsection
and of the right to signal carriage under section 614, and such
other regulations as are necessary to administer the limitations
contained in paragraph (2). The Commission shall consider in such
proceeding the impact that the grant of retransmission consent by
television stations may have on the rates for the basic service tier
and shall ensure that the regulations prescribed under this sub-
section do not conflict with the Commission’s obligation under sec-
tion 623(b)(1) to ensure that the rates for the basic service tier are
reasonable. Such rulemaking proceeding shall be completed within
180 days after the date of enactment of the Cable Television Con-
sumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992.
(B) The regulations required by subparagraph (A) shall require
that television stations, within one year after the date of enactment
of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act
of 1992 and every three years thereafter, make an election between
the right to grant retransmission consent under this subsection and
the right to signal carriage under section 614. If there is more than
one cable system which services the same geographic area, a sta-
tion’s election shall apply to all such cable systems.
(C) 31 The Commission shall commence a rulemaking pro-
ceeding to revise the regulations governing the exercise by tele-
vision broadcast stations of the right to grant retransmission con-
sent under this subsection, and such other regulations as are nec-
essary to administer the limitations contained in paragraph (2).
Such regulations shall—
(i) establish election time periods that correspond with
those regulations adopted under subparagraph (B) of this para-
graph;
(ii) prohibit a television broadcast station that provides re-
transmission consent from engaging in exclusive contracts for
carriage or failing to negotiate in good faith, and it shall not
be a failure to negotiate in good faith if the television broad-
cast station enters into retransmission consent agreements
containing different terms and conditions, including price
terms, with different multichannel video programming dis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00193 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
194Sec. 325 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tributors if such different terms and conditions are based on
competitive marketplace considerations;
(iii) prohibit a multichannel video programming distributor
from failing to negotiate in good faith for retransmission con-
sent under this section, and it shall not be a failure to nego-
tiate in good faith if the distributor enters into retransmission
consent agreements containing different terms and conditions,
including price terms, with different broadcast stations if such
different terms and conditions are based on competitive mar-
ketplace considerations;
(iv) prohibit a television broadcast station from coordi-
nating negotiations or negotiating on a joint basis with another
television broadcast station in the same local market to grant
retransmission consent under this section to a multichannel
video programming distributor, unless such stations are di-
rectly or indirectly under common de jure control permitted
under the regulations of the Commission;
(v) prohibit a television broadcast station from limiting the
ability of a multichannel video programming distributor to
carry into the local market of such station a television signal
that has been deemed significantly viewed, within the meaning
of section 76.54 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor regulation, or any other television broadcast signal
such distributor is authorized to carry under section 338, 339,
340, or 614 of this Act, unless such stations are directly or in-
directly under common de jure control permitted by the Com-
mission; and
(vi) not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment
of the Television Viewer Protection Act of 2019, specify that—
(I) a multichannel video programming distributor may
satisfy its obligation to negotiate in good faith under
clause (iii) with respect to a negotiation for retransmission
consent under this section with a large station group by
designating a qualified MVPD buying group to negotiate
on its behalf, so long as the qualified MVPD buying group
itself negotiates in good faith in accordance with such
clause;
(II) it is a violation of the obligation to negotiate in
good faith under clause (iii) for the qualified MVPD buying
group to disclose the prices, terms, or conditions of an on-
going negotiation or the final terms of a negotiation to a
member of the qualified MVPD buying group that is not
intending, or is unlikely, to enter into the final terms nego-
tiated by the qualified MVPD buying group; and
(III) a large station group has an obligation to nego-
tiate in good faith under clause (ii) with respect to a nego-
tiation for retransmission consent under this section with
a qualified MVPD buying group.
(4) If an originating television station elects under paragraph
(3)(B) to exercise its right to grant retransmission consent under
this subsection with respect to a cable system, the provisions of sec-
tion 614 shall not apply to the carriage of the signal of such station
by such cable system. If an originating television station elects
under paragraph (3)(C) to exercise its right to grant retransmission
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00194 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
195 Sec. 325COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
32 Section 1003(b) of division P of Public Law 116–94 amended paragraph (7) of section 325(b).
Subsection (d) of such section 1003 provides ‘‘The amendments made by this section, and the
regulations promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission under such amendments,
shall not take effect before January 1 of the calendar year after the calendar year in which this
Act is enacted’’ [Enactment date was December 20, 2019].
consent under this subsection with respect to a satellite carrier,
section 338 shall not apply to the carriage of the signal of such sta-
tion by such satellite carrier.
(5) The exercise by a television broadcast station of the right
to grant retransmission consent under this subsection shall not
interfere with or supersede the rights under section 338, 614, or
615 of any station electing to assert the right to signal carriage
under that section.
(6) Nothing in this section shall be construed as modifying the
compulsory copyright license established in section 111 of title 17,
United States Code, or as affecting existing or future video pro-
gramming licensing agreements between broadcasting stations and
video programmers.
(7) 32 For purposes of this subsection, the term—
(A) ‘‘network station’’ has the meaning given such term
under section 119(d) of title 17, United States Code;
(B) ‘‘television broadcast station’’ means an over-the-air
commercial or noncommercial television broadcast station li-
censed by the Commission under subpart E of part 73 of title
47, Code of Federal Regulations, except that such term does
not include a low-power or translator television station;
(C) ‘‘qualified MVPD buying group’’ means an entity that,
with respect to a negotiation with a large station group for re-
transmission consent under this section—
(i) negotiates on behalf of two or more multichannel
video programming distributors—
(I) none of which is a multichannel video program-
ming distributor that serves more than 500,000 sub-
scribers nationally; and
(II) that do not collectively serve more than 25
percent of all households served by a multichannel
video programming distributor in any single local mar-
ket in which the applicable large station group oper-
ates; and
(ii) negotiates agreements for such retransmission con-
sent— (I) that contain standardized contract provisions,
including billing structures and technical quality
standards, for each multichannel video programming
distributor on behalf of which the entity negotiates;
and (II) under which the entity assumes liability to
remit to the applicable large station group all fees re-
ceived from the multichannel video programming dis-
tributors on behalf of which the entity negotiates;
(D) ‘‘large station group’’ means a group of television
broadcast stations that—
(i) are directly or indirectly under common de jure con-
trol permitted by the regulations of the Commission;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00195 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
196Sec. 325 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) generally negotiate agreements for retransmission
consent under this section as a single entity; and
(iii) include only television broadcast stations that
have a national audience reach of more than 20 percent;
(E) ‘‘local market’’ has the meaning given such term in sec-
tion 122(j) of title 17, United States Code; and
(F) ‘‘multichannel video programming distributor’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 602.
(c) No person shall be permitted to locate, use, or maintain a
radio broadcast studio or other place or apparatus from which or
whereby sound waves are converted into electrical energy, or me-
chanical or physical reproduction of sound waves produced, and
caused to be transmitted or delivered to a radio station in a foreign
country for the purpose of being broadcast from any radio station
there having a power output of sufficient intensity and/or being so
located geographically that its emissions may be received consist-
ently in the United States, without first obtaining a permit from
the Commission upon proper application therefor.
(d) Such application shall contain such information as the
Commission may by regulation prescribe, and the granting or re-
fusal thereof shall be subject to the requirements of section 309
hereof with respect to applications for station licenses or renewal
or modification thereof, and the license or permission so granted
shall be revocable for false statements in the application so re-
quired or when the Commission, after hearings, shall find its con-
tinuation no longer in the public interest.
(e) ENFORCEMENT PROCEEDINGS AGAINST SATELLITE CARRIERS
C ONCERNING RETRANSMISSIONS OF TELEVISION BROADCAST STA-
TIONS IN THE RESPECTIVE LOCAL MARKETS OF SUCH CARRIERS.—
(1) COMPLAINTS BY TELEVISION BROADCAST STATIONS.—If
after the expiration of the 6-month period described under sub-
section (b)(2)(E) a television broadcast station believes that a
satellite carrier has retransmitted its signal to any person in
the local market of such station in violation of subsection
(b)(1), the station may file with the Commission a complaint
providing—
(A) the name, address, and call letters of the station;
(B) the name and address of the satellite carrier;
(C) the dates on which the alleged retransmission oc-
curred;
(D) the street address of at least one person in the
local market of the station to whom the alleged retrans-
mission was made;
(E) a statement that the retransmission was not ex-
pressly authorized by the television broadcast station; and
(F) the name and address of counsel for the station.
(2) S ERVICE OF COMPLAINTS ON SATELLITE CARRIERS.—For
purposes of any proceeding under this subsection, any satellite
carrier that retransmits the signal of any broadcast station
shall be deemed to designate the Secretary of the Commission
as its agent for service of process. A television broadcast sta-
tion may serve a satellite carrier with a complaint concerning
an alleged violation of subsection (b)(1) through retransmission
of a station within the local market of such station by filing the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00196 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
197 Sec. 325COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
original and two copies of the complaint with the Secretary of
the Commission and serving a copy of the complaint on the
satellite carrier by means of two commonly used overnight de-
livery services, each addressed to the chief executive officer of
the satellite carrier at its principal place of business, and each
marked ‘‘URGENT LITIGATION MATTER’’ on the outer pack-
aging. Service shall be deemed complete one business day after
a copy of the complaint is provided to the delivery services for
overnight delivery. On receipt of a complaint filed by a tele-
vision broadcast station under this subsection, the Secretary of
the Commission shall send the original complaint by United
States mail, postage prepaid, receipt requested, addressed to
the chief executive officer of the satellite carrier at its principal
place of business.
(3) ANSWERS BY SATELLITE CARRIERS.—Within five busi-
ness days after the date of service, the satellite carrier shall
file an answer with the Commission and shall serve the an-
swer by a commonly used overnight delivery service and by
United States mail, on the counsel designated in the complaint
at the address listed for such counsel in the complaint.
(4) DEFENSES.—
(A) EXCLUSIVE DEFENSES.—The defenses under this
paragraph are the exclusive defenses available to a sat-
ellite carrier against which a complaint under this sub-
section is filed.
(B) DEFENSES.—The defenses referred to under sub-
paragraph (A) are the defenses that—
(i) the satellite carrier did not retransmit the tele-
vision broadcast station to any person in the local
market of the station during the time period specified
in the complaint;
(ii) the television broadcast station had, in a writ-
ing signed by an officer of the television broadcast sta-
tion, expressly authorized the retransmission of the
station by the satellite carrier to each person in the
local market of the television broadcast station to
which the satellite carrier made such retransmissions
for the entire time period during which it is alleged
that a violation of subsection (b)(1) has occurred;
(iii) the retransmission was made after January 1,
2002, and the television broadcast station had elected
to assert the right to carriage under section 338 as
against the satellite carrier for the relevant period; or
(iv) the station being retransmitted is a non-
commercial television broadcast station.
(5) COUNTING OF VIOLATIONS.—The retransmission without
consent of a particular television broadcast station on a par-
ticular day to one or more persons in the local market of the
station shall be considered a separate violation of subsection
(b)(1).
(6) BURDEN OF PROOF.—With respect to each alleged viola-
tion, the burden of proof shall be on a television broadcast sta-
tion to establish that the satellite carrier retransmitted the
station to at least one person in the local market of the station
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00197 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
198Sec. 325 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
on the day in question. The burden of proof shall be on the sat-
ellite carrier with respect to all defenses other than the defense
under paragraph (4)(B)(i).
(7) PROCEDURES.—
(A) REGULATIONS.—Within 60 days after the date of
the enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement
Act of 1999, the Commission shall issue procedural regula-
tions implementing this subsection which shall supersede
procedures under section 312.
(B) DETERMINATIONS.—
(i) I N GENERAL.—Within 45 days after the filing of
a complaint, the Commission shall issue a final deter-
mination in any proceeding brought under this sub-
section. The Commission’s final determination shall
specify the number of violations committed by the sat-
ellite carrier. The Commission shall hear witnesses
only if it clearly appears, based on written filings by
the parties, that there is a genuine dispute about ma-
terial facts. Except as provided in the preceding sen-
tence, the Commission may issue a final ruling based
on written filings by the parties.
(ii) DISCOVERY.—The Commission may direct the
parties to exchange pertinent documents, and if nec-
essary to take prehearing depositions, on such sched-
ule as the Commission may approve, but only if the
Commission first determines that such discovery is
necessary to resolve a genuine dispute about material
facts, consistent with the obligation to make a final
determination within 45 days.
(8) RELIEF.—If the Commission determines that a satellite
carrier has retransmitted the television broadcast station to at
least one person in the local market of such station and has
failed to meet its burden of proving one of the defenses under
paragraph (4) with respect to such retransmission, the Com-
mission shall be required to—
(A) make a finding that the satellite carrier violated
subsection (b)(1) with respect to that station; and
(B) issue an order, within 45 days after the filing of
the complaint, containing—
(i) a cease-and-desist order directing the satellite
carrier immediately to stop making any further re-
transmissions of the television broadcast station to
any person within the local market of such station
until such time as the Commission determines that
the satellite carrier is in compliance with subsection
(b)(1) with respect to such station;
(ii) if the satellite carrier is found to have violated
subsection (b)(1) with respect to more than two tele-
vision broadcast stations, a cease-and-desist order di-
recting the satellite carrier to stop making any further
retransmission of any television broadcast station to
any person within the local market of such station,
until such time as the Commission, after giving notice
to the station, that the satellite carrier is in compli-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00198 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
199 Sec. 325COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ance with subsection (b)(1) with respect to such sta-
tions; and
(iii) an award to the complainant of that complain-
ant’s costs and reasonable attorney’s fees.
(9) COURT PROCEEDINGS ON ENFORCEMENT OF COMMISSION
ORDER.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—On entry by the Commission of a
final order granting relief under this subsection—
(i) a television broadcast station may apply within
30 days after such entry to the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Virginia for a final
judgment enforcing all relief granted by the Commis-
sion; and
(ii) the satellite carrier may apply within 30 days
after such entry to the United States District Court for
the Eastern District of Virginia for a judgment revers-
ing the Commission’s order.
(B) APPEAL.—The procedure for an appeal under this
paragraph by the satellite carrier shall supersede any
other appeal rights under Federal or State law. A United
States district court shall be deemed to have personal ju-
risdiction over the satellite carrier if the carrier, or a com-
pany under common control with the satellite carrier, has
delivered television programming by satellite to more than
30 customers in that district during the preceding 4-year
period. If the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia does not have personal jurisdiction over
the satellite carrier, an enforcement action or appeal shall
be brought in the United States District Court for the Dis-
trict of Columbia, which may find personal jurisdiction
based on the satellite carrier’s ownership of licenses issued
by the Commission. An application by a television broad-
cast station for an order enforcing any cease-and-desist re-
lief granted by the Commission shall be resolved on a
highly expedited schedule. No discovery may be conducted
by the parties in any such proceeding. The district court
shall enforce the Commission order unless the Commission
record reflects manifest error and an abuse of discretion by
the Commission.
(10) CIVIL ACTION FOR STATUTORY DAMAGES.—Within 6
months after issuance of an order by the Commission under
this subsection, a television broadcast station may file a civil
action in any United States district court that has personal ju-
risdiction over the satellite carrier for an award of statutory
damages for any violation that the Commission has determined
to have been committed by a satellite carrier under this sub-
section. Such action shall not be subject to transfer under sec-
tion 1404(a) of title 28, United States Code. On finding that
the satellite carrier has committed one or more violations of
subsection (b), the District Court shall be required to award
the television broadcast station statutory damages of $25,000
per violation, in accordance with paragraph (5), and the costs
and attorney’s fees incurred by the station. Such statutory
damages shall be awarded only if the television broadcast sta-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00199 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
200Sec. 326 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tion has filed a binding stipulation with the court that such
station will donate the full amount in excess of $1,000 of any
statutory damage award to the United States Treasury for
public purposes. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a
station shall incur no tax liability of any kind with respect to
any amounts so donated. Discovery may be conducted by the
parties in any proceeding under this paragraph only if and to
the extent necessary to resolve a genuinely disputed issue of
fact concerning one of the defenses under paragraph (4). In any
such action, the defenses under paragraph (4) shall be exclu-
sive, and the burden of proof shall be on the satellite carrier
with respect to all defenses other than the defense under para-
graph (4)(B)(i). A judgment under this paragraph may be en-
forced in any manner permissible under Federal or State law.
(11) APPEALS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The nonprevailing party before a
United States district court may appeal a decision under
this subsection to the United States Court of Appeals with
jurisdiction over that district court. The Court of Appeals
shall not issue any stay of the effectiveness of any decision
granting relief against a satellite carrier unless the carrier
presents clear and convincing evidence that it is highly
likely to prevail on appeal and only after posting a bond
for the full amount of any monetary award assessed
against it and for such further amount as the Court of Ap-
peals may believe appropriate.
(B) APPEAL.—If the Commission denies relief in re-
sponse to a complaint filed by a television broadcast sta-
tion under this subsection, the television broadcast station
filing the complaint may file an appeal with the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Cir-
cuit.
(12) SUNSET.—No complaint or civil action may be filed
under this subsection after December 31, 2001. This subsection
shall continue to apply to any complaint or civil action filed on
or before such date.
SEC. 326. ø47 U.S.C. 326¿ CENSORSHIP; INDECENT LANGUAGE.
Nothing in this Act shall be understood or construed to give
the Commission the power of censorship over the radio communica-
tions or signals transmitted by any radio station, and no regulation
or condition shall be promulgated or fixed by the Commission
which shall interfere with the right of free speech by means of
radio communication.
SEC. 327. ø47 U.S.C. 327¿ USE OF NAVAL STATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL
MESSAGES.
The Secretary of the Navy is hereby authorized, unless re-
strained by international agreement, under the terms and condi-
tions and at rates prescribed by him, which rates shall be just and
reasonable, and which, upon complaint, shall be subject to review
and revision by the Commission, to use all radio stations and appa-
ratus, wherever located, owned by the United States and under the
control of the Navy Department, (a) for the reception and trans-
mission of press messages offered by any newspaper published in
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00200 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
201 Sec. 330COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the United States, its Territories or possessions, or published by
citizens of the United States in foreign countries, or by any press
association of the United States, and (b) for the reception and
transmission of private commercial messages between ships, be-
tween ship and shore, between localities in Alaska and between
Alaska and the continental United States: Provided, That the rates
fixed for the reception and transmission of all such messages, other
than press messages between the Pacific coast of the United States,
Hawaii, Alaska, Guam, American Samoa, and the Orient, and be-
tween the United States and the Virgin Islands, shall not be less
than the rates charged by privately owned and operated stations
for like messages and service: Provided further, That the right to
use such stations for any of the purposes named in this section
shall terminate and cease as between any countries or localities or
between any locality and privately operated ships whenever pri-
vately owned and operated stations are capable of meeting the nor-
mal communication requirements between such countries or local-
ities or between any locality and privately operated ships, and the
Commission shall have notified the Secretary of the Navy thereof.
øSection 328 was repealed by Public Law 103–414, section
304(a)(10), 108 Stat. 4296–7.¿
SEC. 329. ø47 U.S.C. 329¿ ADMINISTRATION OF RADIO LAWS IN TERRI-
TORIES AND POSSESSIONS.
The Commission is authorized to designate any officer or em-
ployee of any other department of the Government on duty in any
Territory or possession of the United States to render therein such
service in connection with the administration of this Act as the
Commission may prescribe and also to designate any officer or em-
ployee of any other department of the Government to render such
services at any place within the United States in connection with
the administration of title III of this Act as may be necessary: Pro-
vided, That such designation shall be approved by the head of the
department in which such person is employed.
SEC. 330. ø47 U.S.C. 330¿ PROHIBITION AGAINST SHIPMENT OF CER-
TAIN TELEVISION RECEIVERS.
(a) No person shall ship in interstate commerce, or import from
any foreign country into the United States, for sale or resale to the
public, apparatus described in paragraph (s) of section 303 unless
it complies with rules prescribed by the Commission pursuant to
the authority granted by that paragraph: Provided, That this sec-
tion shall not apply to carriers transporting such apparatus with-
out trading in it.
(b) No person shall ship in interstate commerce, manufacture,
assemble, or import from any foreign country into the United
States, any apparatus described in section 303(u) and (z) of this Act
except in accordance with rules prescribed by the Commission pur-
suant to the authority granted by that section. Such rules shall
provide performance and display standards for such built-in de-
coder circuitry or capability designed to display closed captioned
video programming, the transmission and delivery of video descrip-
tion services, and the conveyance of emergency information as re-
quired by section 303 of this Act. Such rules shall further require
that all such apparatus be able to receive and display closed cap-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00201 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
202Sec. 330 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tioning which have been transmitted by way of line 21 of the
vertical blanking interval and which conform to the signal and dis-
play specifications set forth in the Public Broadcasting System en-
gineering report numbered E–7709–C dated May 1980, as amended
by the Telecaption II Decoder Module Performance Specification
published by the National Captioning Institute, November 1985. As
new video technology is developed, the Commission shall take such
action as the Commission determines appropriate to ensure that
closed-captioning service and video description service continue to
be available to consumers. This subsection shall not apply to car-
riers transporting such apparatus without trading it.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), no person shall ship
in interstate commerce or manufacture in the United States any
apparatus described in section 303(x) of this Act except in accord-
ance with rules prescribed by the Commission pursuant to the au-
thority granted by that section.
(2) This subsection shall not apply to carriers transporting ap-
paratus referred to in paragraph (1) without trading in it.
(3) The rules prescribed by the Commission under this sub-
section shall provide for the oversight by the Commission of the
adoption of standards by industry for blocking technology. Such
rules shall require that all such apparatus be able to receive the
rating signals which have been transmitted by way of line 21 of the
vertical blanking interval and which conform to the signal and
blocking specifications established by industry under the super-
vision of the Commission.
(4) As new video technology is developed, the Commission shall
take such action as the Commission determines appropriate to en-
sure that blocking service continues to be available to consumers.
If the Commission determines that an alternative blocking tech-
nology exists that—
(A) enables parents to block programming based on identi-
fying programs without ratings,
(B) is available to consumers at a cost which is comparable
to the cost of technology that allows parents to block program-
ming based on common ratings, and
(C) will allow parents to block a broad range of programs
on a multichannel system as effectively and as easily as tech-
nology that allows parents to block programming based on
common ratings,
the Commission shall amend the rules prescribed pursuant to sec-
tion 303(x) to require that the apparatus described in such section
be equipped with either the blocking technology described in such
section or the alternative blocking technology described in this
paragraph.
(d) For the purposes of this section, and sections 303(s), 303(u),
and 303(x)—
(1) The term ‘‘interstate commerce’’ means (A) commerce
between any State, the District of Columbia, the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico, or any possession of the United States
and any place outside thereof which is within the United
States, (B) commerce between points in the same State, the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or
possession of the United States but through any place outside
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00202 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
203 Sec. 331COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
33 Former section 331 was added by Public Law 93–107, 87 Stat. 350, Sept. 14, 1973. The stat-
ute also set a date (Dec. 31, 1975) when the provision was to be repealed. The former section
331 read as follows:
BROADCAST OF GAMES OF PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS
S EC. 331. (a) If any game of a professional sports club is to be broadcast by means of television
pursuant to a league television contract and all tickets of admission for seats of such game which
were available for purchase by the general public one hundred and twenty hours or more before
the scheduled beginning time of such game have been purchased seventy-two hours or more before
such time, no agreement which would prevent the broadcasting by means of television of such
game at the same time and in the area in which such game is being played shall be valid or
have any force or effect. The right to broadcast such game by means of television at such time
and in such area shall be made available, by the person or persons having such right, to a tele-
vision broadcast licensee on reasonable terms and conditions unless the broadcasting by means
of television of such game at such time and in such area would be a telecasting which section
3 of Public Law 87–331, as amended (15 U.S.C. 1293), is intended to prevent.
(b) If any person violates subsection (a) of this section, any interested person may commence
a civil action for injunctive relief restraining such violation in any United States district court
for a district in which the defendant resides or has an agent. In any such action, the court may
award the cost of the suit including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
(c) For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term ‘‘professional sports club’’ includes any professional football, baseball, basket-
ball, or hockey club.
(2) The term ‘‘league television contract’’ means any joint agreement by or among profes-
sional sports clubs by which any league of such clubs sells or otherwise transfers all or any
part of the rights of such league’s member clubs in the sponsored telecasting of the games
engaged in or conducted by such clubs.
(3) The term ‘‘agreement’’ includes any contract, arrangement, or other understanding.
(4) The term ‘‘available for purchase by the general public’’, when used with respect to tick-
ets of admission for seats at a game or games to be played by a professional sports club,
means only those tickets on sale at the stadium where such game or games are to be played,
or, if such tickets are not sold at such stadium, only those tickets on sale at the box office
closest to such stadium.
(d) The Commission shall conduct a continuing study of the effect of this section and shall,
not later than April 15 of each year, submit a report to the Committee on Commerce of the Senate
and the Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce of the House of Representatives with re-
spect thereto. Such report shall include pertinent statistics and data and any recommendations
for legislation relating to the broadcasting of professional football, baseball, basketball, and hock-
ey games which the Commission determines would serve the public interest.
thereof, or (C) commerce wholly within the District of Colum-
bia or any possession of the United States.
(2) The term ‘‘United States’’ means the several States, the
District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and
the possessions of the United States, but does not include the
Canal Zone.
SEC. 331. 33 ø47 U.S.C. 331¿ VERY HIGH FREQUENCY STATIONS AND AM
RADIO STATIONS.
(a) VERY HIGH FREQUENCY STATIONS.—It shall be the policy of
the Federal Communications Commission to allocate channels for
very high frequency commercial television broadcasting in a man-
ner which ensures that not less than one such channel shall be al-
located to each State, if technically feasible. In any case in which
licensee of a very high frequency commercial television broadcast
station notifies the Commission to the effect that such licensee will
agree to the reallocation of its channel to a community within a
State in which there is allocated no very high frequency commer-
cial television broadcast channel at the time such notification, the
Commission shall, not withstanding any other provision of law,
order such reallocation and issue a license to such licensee for that
purpose pursuant to such notification for a term of not to exceed
5 years as provided in section 307(d) of the Communications Act of
1934.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00203 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
204Sec. 332 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
34 Section 6002 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (P.L. 103–66; Aug. 10, 1993;
107 Stat. 312), subsection (b)(2) of which extensively revised section 332(c) and (d) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934, contained the following effective date and deadlines provisions:
SEC. 6002. AUTHORITY TO USE COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
(a) * * *
* * * * * * *
(c) ø47 U.S.C. 332 note¿E FFECTIVE D ATES.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by this sec-
tion are effective on the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) E FFECTIVE DATES OF MOBILE SERVICE AMENDMENTS.—The amendments made by sub-
section (b)(2) shall be effective on the date of enactment of this Act, except that—
(A) section 332(c)(3)(A) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended by such sub-
section, shall take effect 1 year after such date of enactment; and
(B) any private land mobile service provided by any person before such date of enact-
ment, and any paging service utilizing frequencies allocated as of January 1, 1993, for
(b) AM RADIO STATIONS.—It shall be the policy of the Commis-
sion, in any case in which the licensee of an existing AM daytime-
only station located in a community with a population of more than
100,000 persons that lacks a local full-time aural station licensed
to that community and that is located within a Class I station pri-
mary service area notifies the Commission that such licensee seeks
to provide full-time service, to ensure that such a licensee is able
to place a principal community contour signal over its entire com-
munity of license 24 hours a day, if technically feasible.
SEC. 332. ø47 U.S.C. 332¿ MOBILE SERVICES.
(a) In taking actions to manage the spectrum to be made avail-
able for use by the private mobile services, the Commission shall
consider, consistent with section 1 of this Act, whether such actions
will— (1) promote the safety of life and property;
(2) improve the efficiency of spectrum use and reduce the
regulatory burden upon spectrum users, based upon sound en-
gineering principles, user operational requirements, and mar-
ketplace demands;
(3) encourage competition and provide services to the larg-
est feasible number of users; or
(4) increase interservice sharing opportunities between pri-
vate mobile services and other services.
(b)(1) The Commission, in coordinating the assignment of fre-
quencies to stations in the private mobile services and in the fixed
services (as defined by the Commission by rule), shall have author-
ity to utilize assistance furnished by advisory coordinating commit-
tees consisting of individuals who are not officers or employees of
the Federal Government.
(2) The authority of the Commission established in this sub-
section shall not be subject to or affected by the provisions of part
III of title 5, United States Code, or section 3679(b) of the Revised
Statutes (31 U.S.C. 665(b)).
(3) Any person who provides assistance to the Commission
under this subsection shall not be considered, by reason of having
provided such assistance, a Federal employee.
(4) Any advisory coordinating committee which furnishes as-
sistance to the Commission under this subsection shall not be sub-
ject to the provisions of chapter 10 of title 5, United States Code.
(c) 34 REGULATORY TREATMENT OF MOBILE SERVICES.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00204 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 5601 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
205 Sec. 332COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
private land mobile services, shall, except for purposes of section 332(c)(6) of such Act,
be treated as a private mobile service until 3 years after such date of enactment.
(d) D EADLINES FOR C OMMISSION A CTION.—
(1) G ENERAL RULEMAKING.—The Federal Communications Commission shall prescribe reg-
ulations to implement section 309(j) of the Communications Act of 1934 (as added by this
section) within 210 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) PCS ORDERS AND LICENSING.—The Commission shall—
(A) within 180 days after such date of enactment, issue a final report and order (i)
in the matter entitled ‘‘Redevelopment of Spectrum to Encourage Innovation in the Use
of New Telecommunications Technologies’’ (ET Docket No. 92–9); and (ii) in the matter
entitled ‘‘Amendment of the Commission’s Rules to Establish New Personal Commu-
nications Services’’ (GEN Docket No. 90–314; ET Docket No. 92–100); and
(B) within 270 days after such date of enactment, commence issuing licenses and per-
mits in the personal communications service.
(3) TRANSITIONAL RULEMAKING FOR MOBILE SERVICE PROVIDERS.—Within 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Federal Communications Commission—
(A) shall issue such modifications or terminations of the regulations applicable (before
the date of enactment of this Act) to private land mobile services as are necessary to
implement the amendments made by subsection (b)(2);
(B) in the regulations that will, after such date of enactment, apply to a service that
was a private land mobile service and that becomes a commercial mobile service (as
a consequence of such amendments), shall make such other modifications or termi-
nations as may be necessary and practical to assure that licensees in such service are
subjected to technical requirements that are comparable to the technical requirements
that apply to licensees that are providers of substantially similar common carrier serv-
ices;
(C) shall issue such other regulations as are necessary to implement the amendments
made by subsection (b)(2); and
(D) shall include, in such regulations, modifications, and terminations, such provi-
sions as are necessary to provide for an orderly transition.
(1) COMMON CARRIER TREATMENT OF COMMERCIAL MOBILE
SERVICES.—(A) A person engaged in the provision of a service
that is a commercial mobile service shall, insofar as such per-
son is so engaged, be treated as a common carrier for purposes
of this Act, except for such provisions of title II as the Commis-
sion may specify by regulation as inapplicable to that service
or person. In prescribing or amending any such regulation, the
Commission may not specify any provision of section 201, 202,
or 208, and may specify any other provision only if the Com-
mission determines that—
(i) enforcement of such provision is not necessary in
order to ensure that the charges, practices, classifications,
or regulations for or in connection with that service are
just and reasonable and are not unjustly or unreasonably
discriminatory;
(ii) enforcement of such provision is not necessary for
the protection of consumers; and
(iii) specifying such provision is consistent with the
public interest.
(B) Upon reasonable request of any person providing com-
mercial mobile service, the Commission shall order a common
carrier to establish physical connections with such service pur-
suant to the provisions of section 201 of this Act. Except to the
extent that the Commission is required to respond to such a
request, this subparagraph shall not be construed as a limita-
tion or expansion of the Commission’s authority to order inter-
connection pursuant to this Act.
(C) As a part of making a determination with respect to
the public interest under subparagraph (A)(iii), the Commis-
sion shall consider whether the proposed regulation (or amend-
ment thereof) will promote competitive market conditions, in-
cluding the extent to which such regulation (or amendment)
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00205 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
206Sec. 332 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
will enhance competition among providers of commercial mo-
bile services. If the Commission determines that such regula-
tion (or amendment) will promote competition among providers
of commercial mobile services, such determination may be the
basis for a Commission finding that such regulation (or amend-
ment) is in the public interest.
(D) The Commission shall, not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this subparagraph, complete a rule-
making required to implement this paragraph with respect to
the licensing of personal communications services, including
making any determinations required by subparagraph (C).
(2) NON-COMMON CARRIER TREATMENT OF PRIVATE MOBILE
SERVICES.—A person engaged in the provision of a service that
is a private mobile service shall not, insofar as such person is
so engaged, be treated as a common carrier for any purpose
under this Act. A common carrier (other than a person that
was treated as a provider of a private land mobile service prior
to the enactment of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
1993) shall not provide any dispatch service on any frequency
allocated for common carrier service, except to the extent such
dispatch service is provided on stations licensed in the domes-
tic public land mobile radio service before January 1, 1982. The
Commission may by regulation terminate, in whole or in part,
the prohibition contained in the preceding sentence if the Com-
mission determines that such termination will serve the public
interest.
(3) STATE PREEMPTION.—(A) Notwithstanding sections 2(b)
and 221(b), no State or local government shall have any au-
thority to regulate the entry of or the rates charged by any
commercial mobile service or any private mobile service, except
that this paragraph shall not prohibit a State from regulating
the other terms and conditions of commercial mobile services.
Nothing in this subparagraph shall exempt providers of com-
mercial mobile services (where such services are a substitute
for land line telephone exchange service for a substantial por-
tion of the communications within such State) from require-
ments imposed by a State commission on all providers of tele-
communications services necessary to ensure the universal
availability of telecommunications service at affordable rates.
Notwithstanding the first sentence of this subparagraph, a
State may petition the Commission for authority to regulate
the rates for any commercial mobile service and the Commis-
sion shall grant such petition if such State demonstrates
that— (i) market conditions with respect to such services fail
to protect subscribers adequately from unjust and unrea-
sonable rates or rates that are unjustly or unreasonably
discriminatory; or
(ii) such market conditions exist and such service is a
replacement for land line telephone exchange service for a
substantial portion of the telephone land line exchange
service within such State.
The Commission shall provide reasonable opportunity for pub-
lic comment in response to such petition, and shall, within 9
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00206 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
207 Sec. 332COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
months after the date of its submission, grant or deny such pe-
tition. If the Commission grants such petition, the Commission
shall authorize the State to exercise under State law such au-
thority over rates, for such periods of time, as the Commission
deems necessary to ensure that such rates are just and reason-
able and not unjustly or unreasonably discriminatory.
(B) If a State has in effect on June 1, 1993, any regulation
concerning the rates for any commercial mobile service offered
in such State on such date, such State may, no later than 1
year after the date of enactment of the Omnibus Budget Rec-
onciliation Act of 1993, petition the Commission requesting
that the State be authorized to continue exercising authority
over such rates. If a State files such a petition, the State’s ex-
isting regulation shall, notwithstanding subparagraph (A), re-
main in effect until the Commission completes all action (in-
cluding any reconsideration) on such petition. The Commission
shall review such petition in accordance with the procedures
established in such subparagraph, shall complete all action (in-
cluding any reconsideration) within 12 months after such peti-
tion is filed, and shall grant such petition if the State satisfies
the showing required under subparagraph (A)(i) or (A)(ii). If
the Commission grants such petition, the Commission shall au-
thorize the State to exercise under State law such authority
over rates, for such period of time, as the Commission deems
necessary to ensure that such rates are just and reasonable
and not unjustly or unreasonably discriminatory. After a rea-
sonable period of time, as determined by the Commission, has
elapsed from the issuance of an order under subparagraph (A)
or this subparagraph, any interested party may petition the
Commission for an order that the exercise of authority by a
State pursuant to such subparagraph is no longer necessary to
ensure that the rates for commercial mobile services are just
and reasonable and not unjustly or unreasonably discrimina-
tory. The Commission shall provide reasonable opportunity for
public comment in response to such petition, and shall, within
9 months after the date of its submission, grant or deny such
petition in whole or in part.
(4) REGULATORY TREATMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS SAT-
ELLITE CORPORATION.—Nothing in this subsection shall be con-
strued to alter or affect the regulatory treatment required by
title IV of the Communications Satellite Act of 1962 of the cor-
poration authorized by title III of such Act.
(5) S PACE SEGMENT CAPACITY.—Nothing in this section
shall prohibit the Commission from continuing to determine
whether the provision of space segment capacity by satellite
systems to providers of commercial mobile services shall be
treated as common carriage.
(6) FOREIGN OWNERSHIP.—The Commission, upon a peti-
tion for waiver filed within 6 months after the date of enact-
ment of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, may
waive the application of section 310(b) to any foreign owner-
ship that lawfully existed before May 24, 1993, of any provider
of a private land mobile service that will be treated as a com-
mon carrier as a result of the enactment of the Omnibus Budg-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00207 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
208Sec. 332 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
et Reconciliation Act of 1993, but only upon the following con-
ditions:
(A) The extent of foreign ownership interest shall not
be increased above the extent which existed on May 24,
1993.
(B) Such waiver shall not permit the subsequent
transfer of ownership to any other person in violation of
section 310(b).
(7) PRESERVATION OF LOCAL ZONING AUTHORITY.—
(A) GENERAL AUTHORITY.—Except as provided in this
paragraph, nothing in this Act shall limit or affect the au-
thority of a State or local government or instrumentality
thereof over decisions regarding the placement, construc-
tion, and modification of personal wireless service facili-
ties.
(B) LIMITATIONS.—
(i) The regulation of the placement, construction,
and modification of personal wireless service facilities
by any State or local government or instrumentality
thereof—
(I) shall not unreasonably discriminate among
providers of functionally equivalent services; and
(II) shall not prohibit or have the effect of pro-
hibiting the provision of personal wireless serv-
ices.
(ii) A State or local government or instrumentality
thereof shall act on any request for authorization to
place, construct, or modify personal wireless service
facilities within a reasonable period of time after the
request is duly filed with such government or instru-
mentality, taking into account the nature and scope of
such request.
(iii) Any decision by a State or local government
or instrumentality thereof to deny a request to place,
construct, or modify personal wireless service facilities
shall be in writing and supported by substantial evi-
dence contained in a written record.
(iv) No State or local government or instrumen-
tality thereof may regulate the placement, construc-
tion, and modification of personal wireless service fa-
cilities on the basis of the environmental effects of
radio frequency emissions to the extent that such fa-
cilities comply with the Commission’s regulations con-
cerning such emissions.
(v) Any person adversely affected by any final ac-
tion or failure to act by a State or local government or
any instrumentality thereof that is inconsistent with
this subparagraph may, within 30 days after such ac-
tion or failure to act, commence an action in any court
of competent jurisdiction. The court shall hear and de-
cide such action on an expedited basis. Any person ad-
versely affected by an act or failure to act by a State
or local government or any instrumentality thereof
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00208 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
209 Sec. 333COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
that is inconsistent with clause (iv) may petition the
Commission for relief.
(C) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this paragraph—
(i) the term ‘‘personal wireless services’’ means
commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless serv-
ices, and common carrier wireless exchange access
services;
(ii) the term ‘‘personal wireless service facilities’’
means facilities for the provision of personal wireless
services; and
(iii) the term ‘‘unlicensed wireless service’’ means
the offering of telecommunications services using duly
authorized devices which do not require individual li-
censes, but does not mean the provision of direct-to-
home satellite services (as defined in section 303(v)).
(8) MOBILE SERVICES ACCESS.—A person engaged in the
provision of commercial mobile services, insofar as such person
is so engaged, shall not be required to provide equal access to
common carriers for the provision of telephone toll services. If
the Commission determines that subscribers to such services
are denied access to the provider of telephone toll services of
the subscribers’ choice, and that such denial is contrary to the
public interest, convenience, and necessity, then the Commis-
sion shall prescribe regulations to afford subscribers unblocked
access to the provider of telephone toll services of the sub-
scribers’ choice through the use of a carrier identification code
assigned to such provider or other mechanism. The require-
ments for unblocking shall not apply to mobile satellite serv-
ices unless the Commission finds it to be in the public interest
to apply such requirements to such services.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section—
(1) the term ‘‘commercial mobile service’’ means any mobile
service (as defined in section 3) that is provided for profit and
makes interconnected service available (A) to the public or (B)
to such classes of eligible users as to be effectively available to
a substantial portion of the public, as specified by regulation
by the Commission;
(2) the term ‘‘interconnected service’’ means service that is
interconnected with the public switched network (as such
terms are defined by regulation by the Commission) or service
for which a request for interconnection is pending pursuant to
subsection (c)(1)(B); and
(3) the term ‘‘private mobile service’’ means any mobile
service (as defined in section 3) that is not a commercial mobile
service or the functional equivalent of a commercial mobile
service, as specified by regulation by the Commission.
SEC. 333. ø47 U.S.C. 333¿ WILLFUL OR MALICIOUS INTERFERENCE.
No person shall willfully or maliciously interfere with or cause
interference to any radio communications of any station licensed or
authorized by or under this Act or operated by the United States
Government.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00209 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
210Sec. 334 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 334. ø47 U.S.C. 334¿ LIMITATION ON REVISION OF EQUAL EMPLOY-
MENT OPPORTUNITY REGULATIONS.
(a) LIMITATION.—Except as specifically provided in this section,
the Commission shall not revise—
(1) the regulations concerning equal employment oppor-
tunity as in effect on September 1, 1992 (47 C.F.R. 73.2080) as
such regulations apply to television broadcast station licensees
and permittees; or
(2) the forms used by such licensees and permittees to re-
port pertinent employment data to the Commission.
(b) MIDTERM REVIEW.—The Commission shall revise the regu-
lations described in subsection (a) to require a midterm review of
television broadcast station licensees’ employment practices and to
require the Commission to inform such licensees of necessary im-
provements in recruitment practices identified as a consequence of
such review.
(c) A UTHORITY TO MAKE TECHNICAL REVISIONS.—The Commis-
sion may revise the regulations described in subsection (a) to make
nonsubstantive technical or clerical revisions in such regulations as
necessary to reflect changes in technology, terminology, or Commis-
sion organization.
SEC. 335. ø47 U.S.C. 335¿ DIRECT BROADCAST SATELLITE SERVICE OB-
LIGATIONS.
(a) PROCEEDING REQUIRED TO REVIEW DBS RESPONSIBIL-
ITIES.—The Commission shall, within 180 days after the date of en-
actment of this section, initiate a rulemaking proceeding to impose,
on providers of direct broadcast satellite service, public interest or
other requirements for providing video programming. Any regula-
tions prescribed pursuant to such rulemaking shall, at a minimum,
apply the access to broadcast time requirement of section 312(a)(7)
and the use of facilities requirements of section 315 to providers of
direct broadcast satellite service providing video programming.
Such proceeding also shall examine the opportunities that the es-
tablishment of direct broadcast satellite service provides for the
principle of localism under this Act, and the methods by which
such principle may be served through technological and other de-
velopments in, or regulation of, such service.
(b) CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS FOR NONCOMMERCIAL, EDU-
CATIONAL, STATE PUBLIC AFFAIRS, AND INFORMATIONAL PROGRAM-
MING.— (1) CHANNEL CAPACITY REQUIRED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(B), the Commission shall require, as a condition of any
provision, initial authorization, or authorization renewal
for a provider of direct broadcast satellite service providing
video programming, that the provider of such service re-
serve a portion of its channel capacity, equal to not less
than 4 percent nor more than 7 percent, exclusively for
noncommercial programming of an educational or informa-
tional nature.
(B) REQUIREMENT FOR QUALIFIED SATELLITE PRO-
VIDER.—The Commission shall require, as a condition of
any provision, initial authorization, or authorization re-
newal for a qualified satellite provider of direct broadcast
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00210 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
211 Sec. 335COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
satellite service providing video programming, that such
provider reserve a portion of its channel capacity, equal to
not less than 3.5 percent nor more than 7 percent, exclu-
sively for noncommercial programming of an educational
or informational nature.
(2) USE OF UNUSED CHANNEL CAPACITY.—A provider of
such service may utilize for any purpose any unused channel
capacity required to be reserved under this subsection pending
the actual use of such channel capacity for noncommercial pro-
gramming of an educational or informational nature.
(3) PRICES, TERMS, AND CONDITIONS; EDITORIAL CONTROL.—
A provider of direct broadcast satellite service shall meet the
requirements of this subsection by making channel capacity
available to national educational programming suppliers, upon
reasonable prices, terms, and conditions, as determined by the
Commission under paragraph (4). The provider of direct broad-
cast satellite service shall not exercise any editorial control
over any video programming provided pursuant to this sub-
section.
(4) LIMITATIONS.—In determining reasonable prices under
paragraph (3)—
(A) the Commission shall take into account the non-
profit character of the programming provider and any Fed-
eral funds used to support such programming;
(B) the Commission shall not permit such prices to ex-
ceed, for any channel made available under this sub-
section, 50 percent of the total direct costs of making such
channel available; and
(C) in the calculation of total direct costs, the Commis-
sion shall exclude—
(i) marketing costs, general administrative costs,
and similar overhead costs of the provider of direct
broadcast satellite service; and
(ii) the revenue that such provider might have ob-
tained by making such channel available to a commer-
cial provider of video programming.
(5) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection—
(A) The term ‘‘provider of direct broadcast satellite
service’’ means—
(i) a licensee for a Ku-band satellite system under
part 100 of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations;
or (ii) any distributor who controls a minimum num-
ber of channels (as specified by Commission regula-
tion) using a Ku-band fixed service satellite system for
the provision of video programming directly to the
home and licensed under part 25 of title 47 of the
Code of Federal Regulations.
(B) The term ‘‘national educational programming sup-
plier’’ includes any qualified noncommercial educational
television station, other public telecommunications enti-
ties, and public or private educational institutions.
(C) The term ‘‘qualified satellite provider’’ means any
provider of direct broadcast satellite service that—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00211 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
212Sec. 336 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
35 Section 531 of the Public Health, Security, and Bioterrorism Response Act of 2001 (PL 107-
188) provided for additional advanced television channel assignments as follows:
SEC. 531. ø47 U.S.C. 336 note¿ TRANSITION TO DIGITAL TELEVISION.
(a) P AIR A SSIGNMENT R EQUIRED.—In order to further promote the orderly transition to digital
television, and to promote the equitable allocation and use of digital channels by television
broadcast permittees and licensees, the Federal Communications Commission, at the request of
an eligible licensee or permittee, shall, within 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
allot, if necessary, and assign a paired digital television channel to that licensee or permittee,
provided that—
(1) such channel can be allotted and assigned without further modification of the tables
of allotments as set forth in sections 73.606 and 73.622 of the Commission’s regulations (47
CFR 73.606, 73.622); and
(2) such allotment and assignment is otherwise consistent with the Commission’s rules
(47 CFR part 73).
(b) E LIGIBLE T RANSITION L ICENSEE OR P ERMITTEE.—For purposes of subsection (a), the term
‘‘eligible licensee or permittee’’ means only a full power television broadcast licensee or per-
mittee (or its successor in interest) that—
(1) had an application pending for an analog television station construction permit as of
October 24, 1991, which application was granted after April 3, 1997; and
(2) as of the date of enactment of this Act, is the permittee or licensee of that station.
(c) R EQUIREMENTS ON LICENSEE OR P ERMITTEE.—
(1) C ONSTRUCTION DEADLINE.—Any licensee or permittee receiving a paired digital chan-
nel pursuant to this section—
(A) shall be required to construct the digital television broadcast facility within 18
months of the date on which the Federal Communications Commission issues a con-
struction permit therefore, and
(B) shall be prohibited from obtaining or receiving an extension of time from the Com-
mission beyond the construction deadline established by paragraph (1).
(2) P ROHIBITION OF ANALOG OPERATION USING DIGITAL PAIR.—Any licensee or permittee re-
ceiving a paired digital channel pursuant to this section shall be prohibited from giving up
its current paired analog assignment and becoming a single-channel broadcaster and oper-
ating in analog on such paired digital channel.
(i) provides the retransmission of the State public
affairs networks of at least 15 different States;
(ii) offers the programming of State public affairs
networks upon reasonable prices, terms, and condi-
tions as determined by the Commission under para-
graph (4); and
(iii) does not delete any noncommercial program-
ming of an educational or informational nature in con-
nection with the carriage of a State public affairs net-
work.
(D) The term ‘‘State public affairs network’’ means a
non-commercial non-broadcast network or a noncommer-
cial educational television station—
(i) whose programming consists of information
about State government deliberations and public pol-
icy events; and
(ii) that is operated by—
(I) a State government or subdivision thereof;
(II) an organization described in section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
that is exempt from taxation under section 501(a)
of such Code and that is governed by an inde-
pendent board of directors; or
(III) a cable system.
SEC. 336. ø47 U.S.C. 336¿ BROADCAST SPECTRUM FLEXIBILITY. 35
(a) COMMISSION ACTION.—If the Commission determines to
issue additional licenses for advanced television services, the Com-
mission—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00212 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
213 Sec. 336COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(d) R ELIEF R ESTRICTED.—Any paired digital allotment and assignment made under this sec-
tion shall not be available to any other applicant unless such applicant is an eligible licensee
or permittee within the meaning of subsection (b).
(1) should limit the initial eligibility for such licenses to
persons that, as of the date of such issuance, are licensed to
operate a television broadcast station or hold a permit to con-
struct such a station (or both); and
(2) shall adopt regulations that allow the holders of such
licenses to offer such ancillary or supplementary services on
designated frequencies as may be consistent with the public in-
terest, convenience, and necessity.
(b) CONTENTS OF REGULATIONS.—In prescribing the regulations
required by subsection (a), the Commission shall—
(1) only permit such licensee or permittee to offer ancillary
or supplementary services if the use of a designated frequency
for such services is consistent with the technology or method
designated by the Commission for the provision of advanced
television services;
(2) limit the broadcasting of ancillary or supplementary
services on designated frequencies so as to avoid derogation of
any advanced television services, including high definition tele-
vision broadcasts, that the Commission may require using such
frequencies;
(3) apply to any other ancillary or supplementary service
such of the Commission’s regulations as are applicable to the
offering of analogous services by any other person, except that
no ancillary or supplementary service shall have any rights to
carriage under section 614 or 615 or be deemed a multichannel
video programming distributor for purposes of section 628;
(4) adopt such technical and other requirements as may be
necessary or appropriate to assure the quality of the signal
used to provide advanced television services, and may adopt
regulations that stipulate the minimum number of hours per
day that such signal must be transmitted; and
(5) prescribe such other regulations as may be necessary
for the protection of the public interest, convenience, and ne-
cessity.
(c) RECOVERY OF LICENSE.—If the Commission grants a license
for advanced television services to a person that, as of the date of
such issuance, is licensed to operate a television broadcast station
or holds a permit to construct such a station (or both), the Commis-
sion shall, as a condition of such license, require that either the ad-
ditional license or the original license held by the licensee be sur-
rendered to the Commission for reallocation or reassignment (or
both) pursuant to Commission regulation.
(d) PUBLIC INTEREST REQUIREMENT.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed as relieving a television broadcasting station
from its obligation to serve the public interest, convenience, and ne-
cessity. In the Commission’s review of any application for renewal
of a broadcast license for a television station that provides ancillary
or supplementary services, the television licensee shall establish
that all of its program services on the existing or advanced tele-
vision spectrum are in the public interest. Any violation of the
Commission rules applicable to ancillary or supplementary services
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00213 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
214Sec. 336 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
shall reflect upon the licensee’s qualifications for renewal of its li-
cense.
(e) FEES.—
(1) SERVICES TO WHICH FEES APPLY.—If the regulations
prescribed pursuant to subsection (a) permit a licensee to offer
ancillary or supplementary services on a designated fre-
quency—
(A) for which the payment of a subscription fee is re-
quired in order to receive such services, or
(B) for which the licensee directly or indirectly re-
ceives compensation from a third party in return for trans-
mitting material furnished by such third party (other than
commercial advertisements used to support broadcasting
for which a subscription fee is not required),
the Commission shall establish a program to assess and collect
from the licensee for such designated frequency an annual fee
or other schedule or method of payment that promotes the ob-
jectives described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph
(2). (2) COLLECTION OF FEES.—The program required by para-
graph (1) shall—
(A) be designed (i) to recover for the public a portion
of the value of the public spectrum resource made avail-
able for such commercial use, and (ii) to avoid unjust en-
richment through the method employed to permit such
uses of that resource;
(B) recover for the public an amount that, to the ex-
tent feasible, equals but does not exceed (over the term of
the license) the amount that would have been recovered
had such services been licensed pursuant to the provisions
of section 309(j) of this Act and the Commission’s regula-
tions thereunder; and
(C) be adjusted by the Commission from time to time
in order to continue to comply with the requirements of
this paragraph.
(3) TREATMENT OF REVENUES.—
(A) GENERAL RULE.—Except as provided in subpara-
graph (B), all proceeds obtained pursuant to the regula-
tions required by this subsection shall be deposited in the
Treasury in accordance with chapter 33 of title 31, United
States Code.
(B) RETENTION OF REVENUES.—Notwithstanding sub-
paragraph (A), the salaries and expenses account of the
Commission shall retain as an offsetting collection such
sums as may be necessary from such proceeds for the costs
of developing and implementing the program required by
this section and regulating and supervising advanced tele-
vision services. Such offsetting collections shall be avail-
able for obligation subject to the terms and conditions of
the receiving appropriations account, and shall be depos-
ited in such accounts on a quarterly basis.
(4) REPORT.—The Commission shall annually advise the
Congress on the amounts collected pursuant to the program re-
quired by this subsection.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00214 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
215 Sec. 336COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(f) PRESERVATION OF LOW-POWER COMMUNITY TELEVISION
BROADCASTING.—
(1) CREATION OF CLASS A LICENSES.—
(A) RULEMAKING REQUIRED.—Within 120 days after
the date of the enactment of the Community Broadcasters
Protection Act of 1999, the Commission shall prescribe reg-
ulations to establish a class A television license to be avail-
able to licensees of qualifying low-power television sta-
tions. Such regulations shall provide that—
(i) the license shall be subject to the same license
terms and renewal standards as the licenses for full-
power television stations except as provided in this
subsection; and
(ii) each such class A licensee shall be accorded
primary status as a television broadcaster as long as
the station continues to meet the requirements for a
qualifying low-power station in paragraph (2).
(B) NOTICE TO AND CERTIFICATION BY LICENSEES.—
Within 30 days after the date of the enactment of the
Community Broadcasters Protection Act of 1999, the Com-
mission shall send a notice to the licensees of all low-
power televisions licenses that describes the requirements
for class A designation. Within 60 days after such date of
enactment, licensees intending to seek class A designation
shall submit to the Commission a certification of eligibility
based on the qualification requirements of this subsection.
Absent a material deficiency, the Commission shall grant
certification of eligibility to apply for class A status.
(C) APPLICATION FOR AND AWARD OF LICENSES.—Con-
sistent with the requirements set forth in paragraph (2)(A)
of this subsection, a licensee may submit an application for
class A designation under this paragraph within 30 days
after final regulations are adopted under subparagraph (A)
of this paragraph. Except as provided in paragraphs (6)
and (7), the Commission shall, within 30 days after receipt
of an application of a licensee of a qualifying low-power
television station that is acceptable for filing, award such
a class A television station license to such licensee.
(D) RESOLUTION OF TECHNICAL PROBLEMS.—The Com-
mission shall act to preserve the service areas of low-power
television licensees pending the final resolution of a class
A application. If, after granting certification of eligibility
for a class A license, technical problems arise requiring an
engineering solution to a full-power station’s allotted pa-
rameters or channel assignment in the digital television
Table of Allotments, the Commission shall make such
modifications as necessary—
(i) to ensure replication of the full-power digital
television applicant’s service area, as provided for in
sections 73.622 and 73.623 of the Commission’s regu-
lations (47 CFR 73.622, 73.623); and
(ii) to permit maximization of a full-power digital
television applicant’s service area consistent with such
sections 73.622 and 73.623,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00215 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
216Sec. 336 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
if such applicant has filed an application for maximization
or a notice of its intent to seek such maximization by De-
cember 31, 1999, and filed a bona fide application for
maximization by May 1, 2000. Any such applicant shall
comply with all applicable Commission rules regarding the
construction of digital television facilities.
(E) CHANGE APPLICATIONS.—If a station that is award-
ed a construction permit to maximize or significantly en-
hance its digital television service area, later files a change
application to reduce its digital television service area, the
protected contour of that station shall be reduced in ac-
cordance with such change modification.
(2) QUALIFYING LOW-POWER TELEVISION STATIONS.—For
purposes of this subsection, a station is a qualifying low-power
television station if—
(A)(i) during the 90 days preceding the date of the en-
actment of the Community Broadcasters Protection Act of
1999— (I) such station broadcast a minimum of 18 hours
per day;
(II) such station broadcast an average of at least
3 hours per week of programming that was produced
within the market area served by such station, or the
market area served by a group of commonly controlled
low-power stations that carry common local program-
ming produced within the market area served by such
group; and
(III) such station was in compliance with the Com-
mission’s requirements applicable to low-power tele-
vision stations; and
(ii) from and after the date of its application for a class
A license, the station is in compliance with the Commis-
sion’s operating rules for full-power television stations; or
(B) the Commission determines that the public inter-
est, convenience, and necessity would be served by treating
the station as a qualifying low-power television station for
purposes of this section, or for other reasons determined by
the Commission.
(3) COMMON OWNERSHIP.—No low-power television station
authorized as of the date of the enactment of the Community
Broadcasters Protection Act of 1999 shall be disqualified for a
class A license based on common ownership with any other me-
dium of mass communication.
(4) ISSUANCE OF LICENSES FOR ADVANCED TELEVISION SERV-
ICES TO TELEVISION TRANSLATOR STATIONS AND QUALIFYING
LOW-POWER TELEVISION STATIONS.—The Commission is not re-
quired to issue any additional license for advanced television
services to the licensee of a class A television station under
this subsection, or to any licensee of any television translator
station, but shall accept a license application for such services
proposing facilities that will not cause interference to the serv-
ice area of any other broadcast facility applied for, protected,
permitted, or authorized on the date of filing of the advanced
television application. Such new license or the original license
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00216 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
217 Sec. 336COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
of the applicant shall be forfeited after the end of the digital
television service transition period, as determined by the Com-
mission. A licensee of a low-power television station or tele-
vision translator station may, at the option of licensee, elect to
convert to the provision of advanced television services on its
analog channel, but shall not be required to convert to digital
operation until the end of such transition period.
(5) NO PREEMPTION OF SECTION 337.—Nothing in this sub-
section preempts or otherwise affects section 337 of this Act.
(6) INTERIM QUALIFICATION.—
(A) STATIONS OPERATING WITHIN CERTAIN BAND-
WIDTH.—The Commission may not grant a class A license
to a low-power television station for operation between 698
and 806 megahertz, but the Commission shall provide to
low-power television stations assigned to and temporarily
operating in that bandwidth the opportunity to meet the
qualification requirements for a class A license. If such a
qualified applicant for a class A license is assigned a chan-
nel within the core spectrum (as such term is defined in
MM Docket No. 87–286, February 17, 1998), the Commis-
sion shall issue a class A license simultaneously with the
assignment of such channel.
(B) C ERTAIN CHANNELS OFF-LIMITS.—The Commission
may not grant under this subsection a class A license to
a low-power television station operating on a channel with-
in the core spectrum that includes any of the 175 addi-
tional channels referenced in paragraph 45 of its February
23, 1998, Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsider-
ation of the Sixth Report and Order (MM Docket No. 87–
268). Within 18 months after the date of the enactment of
the Community Broadcasters Protection Act of 1999, the
Commission shall identify by channel, location, and appli-
cable technical parameters those 175 channels.
(7) NO INTERFERENCE REQUIREMENT.—The Commission
may not grant a class A license, nor approve a modification of
a class A license, unless the applicant or licensee shows that
the class A station for which the license or modification is
sought will not cause—
(A) interference within—
(i) the predicted Grade B contour (as of the date
of the enactment of the Community Broadcasters Pro-
tection Act of 1999, or November 1, 1999, whichever is
later, or as proposed in a change application filed on
or before such date) of any television station transmit-
ting in analog format; or
(ii)(I) the digital television service areas provided
in the DTV Table of Allotments; (II) the areas pro-
tected in the Commission’s digital television regula-
tions (47 CFR 73.622(e) and (f)); (III) the digital tele-
vision service areas of stations subsequently granted
by the Commission prior to the filing of a class A ap-
plication; and (IV) stations seeking to maximize power
under the Commission’s rules, if such station has com-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00217 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
218Sec. 336 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
36 Section 143 of the Miscellaneous Appropriations Act, 2001 (P.L. 106–554; Appendix D),
added subsection (h) to section 336. Section 143(b) of the Miscellaneous Appropriations Act,
2001, provided as follows:
(b) ø47 U.S.C. 336 note¿ The Federal Communications Commission shall submit a report to
the Congress on June 30, 2001, and June 30, 2002, evaluating the utility of using low-power
television stations to provide high-speed digital data service. The reports shall be based on the
pilot projects authorized by section 336(h) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 336(h)).
plied with the notification requirements in paragraph
(1)(D);
(B) interference within the protected contour of any
low-power television station or low-power television trans-
lator station that—
(i) was licensed prior to the date on which the ap-
plication for a class A license, or for the modification
of such a license, was filed;
(ii) was authorized by construction permit prior to
such date; or
(iii) had a pending application that was submitted
prior to such date; or
(C) interference within the protected contour of 80
miles from the geographic center of the areas listed in sec-
tion 22.625(b)(1) or 90.303 of the Commission’s regulations
(47 CFR 22.625(b)(1) and 90.303) for frequencies in—
(i) the 470–512 megahertz band identified in
section 22.621 or 90.303 of such regulations; or
(ii) the 482–488 megahertz band in New York.
(8) PRIORITY FOR DISPLACED LOW-POWER STATIONS.—Low-
power stations that are displaced by an application filed under
this section shall have priority over other low-power stations in
the assignment of available channels.
(g) EVALUATION.—Within 10 years after the date the Commis-
sion first issues additional licenses for advanced television services,
the Commission shall conduct an evaluation of the advanced tele-
vision services program. Such evaluation shall include—
(1) an assessment of the willingness of consumers to pur-
chase the television receivers necessary to receive broadcasts of
advanced television services;
(2) an assessment of alternative uses, including public
safety use, of the frequencies used for such broadcasts; and
(3) the extent to which the Commission has been or will
be able to reduce the amount of spectrum assigned to licensees.
(h) 36 (1) Within 60 days after receiving a request (made in such
form and manner and containing such information as the Commis-
sion may require) under this subsection from a low-power television
station to which this subsection applies, the Commission shall au-
thorize the licensee or permittee of that station to provide digital
data service subject to the requirements of this subsection as a
pilot project to demonstrate the feasibility of using low-power tele-
vision stations to provide high-speed wireless digital data service,
including Internet access to unserved areas.
(2) The low-power television stations to which this sub-
section applies are as follows:
(A) KHLM–LP, Houston, Texas.
(B) WTAM–LP, Tampa, Florida.
(C) WWRJ–LP, Jacksonville, Florida.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00218 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
219 Sec. 336COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(D) WVBG–LP, Albany, New York.
(E) KHHI–LP, Honolulu, Hawaii.
(F) KPHE–LP (K19DD), Phoenix, Arizona.
(G) K34FI, Bozeman, Montana.
(H) K65GZ, Bozeman, Montana.
(I) WXOB–LP, Richmond, Virginia.
(J) WIIW–LP, Nashville, Tennessee.
(K) A station and repeaters to be determined by the
Federal Communications Commission for the sole purpose
of providing service to communities in the Kenai Peninsula
Borough and Matanuska Susitna Borough.
(L) WSPY–LP, Plano, Illinois.
(M) W24AJ, Aurora, Illinois.
(3) Notwithstanding any requirement of section 553 of title
5, United States Code, the Commission shall promulgate regu-
lations establishing the procedures, consistent with the re-
quirements of paragraphs (4) and (5), governing the pilot
projects for the provision of digital data services by certain low
power television licensees within 120 days after the date of en-
actment of LPTV Digital Data Services Act. The regulations
shall set forth—
(A) requirements as to the form, manner, and informa-
tion required for submitting requests to the Commission to
provide digital data service as a pilot project;
(B) procedures for testing interference to digital tele-
vision receivers caused by any pilot project station or re-
mote transmitter;
(C) procedures for terminating any pilot project station
or remote transmitter or both that causes interference to
any analog or digital full-power television stations, class A
television station, television translators or any other users
of the core television band;
(D) specifications for reports to be filed quarterly by
each low power television licensee participating in a pilot
project;
(E) procedures by which a low power television li-
censee participating in a pilot project shall notify television
broadcast stations in the same market upon commence-
ment of digital data services and for ongoing coordination
with local broadcasters during the test period; and
(F) procedures for the receipt and review of inter-
ference complaints on an expedited basis consistent with
paragraph (5)(D).
(4) A low-power television station to which this subsection
applies may not provide digital data service unless—
(A) the provision of that service, including any remote
return-path transmission in the case of 2-way digital data
service, does not cause any interference in violation of the
Commission’s existing rules, regarding interference caused
by low power television stations to full-service analog or
digital television stations, class A television stations, or
television translator stations; and
(B) the station complies with the Commission’s regula-
tions governing safety, environmental, and sound engi-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00219 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
220Sec. 336 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
neering practices, and any other Commission regulation
under paragraph (3) governing pilot program operations.
(5)(A) The Commission may limit the provision of digital
data service by a low-power television station to which this
subsection applies if the Commission finds that—
(i) the provision of 2-way digital data service by that
station causes any interference that cannot otherwise be
remedied; or
(ii) the provision of 1-way digital data service by that
station causes any interference.
(B) The Commission shall grant any such station, upon ap-
plication (made in such form and manner and containing such
information as the Commission may require) by the licensee or
permittee of that station, authority to move the station to an-
other location, to modify its facilities to operate on a different
channel, or to use booster or auxiliary transmitting locations,
if the grant of authority will not cause interference to the al-
lowable or protected service areas of full service digital tele-
vision stations, National Television Standards Committee as-
signments, or television translator stations, and provided, how-
ever, no such authority shall be granted unless it is consistent
with existing Commission regulations relating to the move-
ment, modification, and use of non-class A low power television
transmission facilities in order—
(i) to operate within television channels 2 through 51,
inclusive; or
(ii) to demonstrate the utility of low-power television
stations to provide high-speed 2-way wireless digital data
service.
(C) The Commission shall require quarterly reports from
each station authorized to provide digital data services under
this subsection that include—
(i) information on the station’s experience with inter-
ference complaints and the resolution thereof;
(ii) information on the station’s market success in pro-
viding digital data service; and
(iii) such other information as the Commission may re-
quire in order to administer this subsection.
(D) The Commission shall resolve any complaints of inter-
ference with television reception caused by any station pro-
viding digital data service authorized under this subsection
within 60 days after the complaint is received by the Commis-
sion.(6) The Commission shall assess and collect from any low-
power television station authorized to provide digital data serv-
ice under this subsection an annual fee or other schedule or
method of payment comparable to any fee imposed under the
authority of this Act on providers of similar services. Amounts
received by the Commission under this paragraph may be re-
tained by the Commission as an offsetting collection to the ex-
tent necessary to cover the costs of developing and imple-
menting the pilot program authorized by this subsection, and
regulating and supervising the provision of digital data service
by low-power television stations under this subsection.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00220 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
221 Sec. 337COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Amounts received by the Commission under this paragraph in
excess of any amount retained under the preceding sentence
shall be deposited in the Treasury in accordance with chapter
33 of title 31, United States Code.
(7) In this subsection, the term ‘‘digital data service’’ in-
cludes— (A) digitally-based interactive broadcast service; and
(B) wireless Internet access, without regard to—
(i) whether such access is—
(I) provided on a one-way or a two-way basis;
(II) portable or fixed; or
(III) connected to the Internet via a band allo-
cated to Interactive Video and Data Service; and
(ii) the technology employed in delivering such
service, including the delivery of such service via mul-
tiple transmitters at multiple locations.
(8) Nothing in this subsection limits the authority of the
Commission under any other provision of law.
(i) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) ADVANCED TELEVISION SERVICES.—The term ‘‘advanced
television services’’ means television services provided using
digital or other advanced technology as further defined in the
opinion, report, and order of the Commission entitled ‘‘Ad-
vanced Television Systems and Their Impact Upon the Exist-
ing Television Broadcast Service’’, MM Docket 87–268, adopted
September 17, 1992, and successor proceedings.
(2) DESIGNATED FREQUENCIES.—The term ‘‘designated fre-
quency’’ means each of the frequencies designated by the Com-
mission for licenses for advanced television services.
(3) HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION.—The term ‘‘high defini-
tion television’’ refers to systems that offer approximately twice
the vertical and horizontal resolution of receivers generally
available on the date of enactment of the Telecommunications
Act of 1996, as further defined in the proceedings described in
paragraph (1) of this subsection.
SEC. 337. ø47 U.S.C. 337¿ ALLOCATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF NEW PUB-
LIC SAFETY SERVICES LICENSES AND COMMERCIAL LI-
CENSES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1, 1998, the Commis-
sion shall allocate the electromagnetic spectrum between 746
megahertz and 806 megahertz, inclusive, as follows:
(1) 34 megahertz of that spectrum for public safety serv-
ices according to the terms and conditions established by the
Commission, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce
and the Attorney General; and
(2) 26 megahertz of that spectrum for commercial use to
be assigned by competitive bidding pursuant to section 309(j).
(b) ASSIGNMENT.—The Commission shall commence assign-
ment of licenses for public safety services created pursuant to sub-
section (a) no later than September 30, 1998.
(c) LICENSING OF UNUSED FREQUENCIES FOR PUBLIC SAFETY
SERVICES.—
(1) USE OF UNUSED CHANNELS FOR PUBLIC SAFETY SERV-
ICES.—Upon application by an entity seeking to provide public
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00221 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
222Sec. 337 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
safety services, the Commission shall waive any requirement of
this Act or its regulations implementing this Act (other than
its regulations regarding harmful interference) to the extent
necessary to permit the use of unassigned frequencies for the
provision of public safety services by such entity. An applica-
tion shall be granted under this subsection if the Commission
finds that—
(A) no other spectrum allocated to public safety serv-
ices is immediately available to satisfy the requested pub-
lic safety service use;
(B) the requested use is technically feasible without
causing harmful interference to other spectrum users enti-
tled to protection from such interference under the Com-
mission’s regulations;
(C) the use of the unassigned frequency for the provi-
sion of public safety services is consistent with other allo-
cations for the provision of such services in the geographic
area for which the application is made;
(D) the unassigned frequency was allocated for its
present use not less than 2 years prior to the date on
which the application is granted; and
(E) granting such application is consistent with the
public interest.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—Paragraph (1) shall apply to any appli-
cation to provide public safety services that is pending or filed
on or after the date of enactment of the Balanced Budget Act
of 1997.
(d) CONDITIONS ON LICENSES.—In establishing service rules
with respect to licenses granted pursuant to this section, the Com-
mission—
(1) shall establish interference limits at the boundaries of
the spectrum block and service area;
(2) shall establish any additional technical restrictions nec-
essary to protect full-service analog television service and dig-
ital television service during a transition to digital television
service;
(3) may permit public safety services licensees and com-
mercial licensees—
(A) to aggregate multiple licenses to create larger
spectrum blocks and service areas; and
(B) to disaggregate or partition licenses to create
smaller spectrum blocks or service areas; and
(4) shall establish rules insuring that public safety services
licensees using spectrum reallocated pursuant to subsection
(a)(1) shall not be subject to harmful interference from tele-
vision broadcast licensees.
(e) REMOVAL AND RELOCATION OF INCUMBENT BROADCAST LI-
CENSEES.—
(1) CHANNELS 52 TO 69.—Any full-power television station
licensee that holds a television broadcast license to operate be-
tween 698 and 806 megahertz may not operate at that fre-
quency after June 12, 2009.
(2) I NCUMBENT QUALIFYING LOW- POWER STATIONS.—After
making any allocation or assignment under this section, the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00222 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
223 Sec. 338COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Commission shall seek to assure, consistent with the Commis-
sion’s plan for allotments for digital television service, that
each qualifying low-power television station is assigned a fre-
quency below 698 megahertz to permit the continued operation
of such station.
(f) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section:
(1) PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.—The term ‘‘public safety
services’’ means services—
(A) the sole or principal purpose of which is to protect
the safety of life, health, or property;
(B) that are provided—
(i) by State or local government entities; or
(ii) by nongovernmental organizations that are au-
thorized by a governmental entity whose primary mis-
sion is the provision of such services; and
(C) that are not made commercially available to the
public by the provider.
(2) QUALIFYING LOW-POWER TELEVISION STATIONS.—A sta-
tion is a qualifying low-power television station if, during the
90 days preceding the date of enactment of the Balanced Budg-
et Act of 1997—
(A) such station broadcast a minimum of 18 hours per
day;
(B) such station broadcast an average of at least 3
hours per week of programming that was produced within
the market area served by such station; and
(C) such station was in compliance with the require-
ments applicable to low-power television stations.
SEC. 338. ø47 U.S.C. 338¿ CARRIAGE OF LOCAL TELEVISION SIGNALS BY
SATELLITE CARRIERS.
(a) CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each satellite carrier providing, under
section 122 of title 17, United States Code, secondary trans-
missions to subscribers located within the local market of a tel-
evision broadcast station of a primary transmission made by
that station shall carry upon request the signals of all tele-
vision broadcast stations located within that local market, sub-
ject to section 325(b).
(2) REMEDIES FOR FAILURE TO CARRY.—In addition to the
remedies available to television broadcast stations under sec-
tion 501(f) of title 17, United States Code, the Commission may
use the Commission’s authority under this Act to assure com-
pliance with the obligations of this subsection, but in no in-
stance shall a Commission enforcement proceeding be required
as a predicate to the pursuit of a remedy available under such
section 501(f).
(3) LOW POWER STATION CARRIAGE OPTIONAL.—No low
power television station whose signals are provided under sec-
tion 119(a)(14) of title 17, United States Code, shall be entitled
to insist on carriage under this section, regardless of whether
the satellite carrier provides secondary transmissions of the
primary transmissions of other stations in the same local mar-
ket pursuant to section 122 of such title, nor shall any such
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00223 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
224Sec. 338 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
carriage be considered in connection with the requirements of
subsection (c) of this section.
(4) CARRIAGE OF SIGNALS OF LOCAL STATIONS IN CERTAIN
MARKETS.—A satellite carrier that offers multichannel video
programming distribution service in the United States to more
than 5,000,000 subscribers shall (A) within 1 year after the
date of the enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Extension
and Reauthorization Act of 2004, retransmit the signals origi-
nating as analog signals of each television broadcast station lo-
cated in any local market within a State that is not part of the
contiguous United States, and (B) within 30 months after such
date of enactment retransmit the signals originating as digital
signals of each such station. The retransmissions of such sta-
tions shall be made available to substantially all of the sat-
ellite carrier’s subscribers in each station’s local market, and
the retransmissions of the stations in at least one market in
the State shall be made available to substantially all of the
satellite carrier’s subscribers in areas of the State that are not
within a designated market area. The cost to subscribers of
such retransmissions shall not exceed the cost of retrans-
missions of local television stations in other States. Within 1
year after the date of enactment of that Act, the Commission
shall promulgate regulations concerning elections by television
stations in such State between mandatory carriage pursuant to
this section and retransmission consent pursuant to section
325(b), which shall take into account the schedule on which
local television stations are made available to viewers in such
State.
(5) NONDISCRIMINATION IN CARRIAGE OF HIGH DEFINITION
SIGNALS OF NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION STA-
TIONS.— (A) EXISTING CARRIAGE OF HIGH DEFINITION SIGNALS.—
If, before the date of enactment of the Satellite Television
Extension and Localism Act of 2010, an eligible satellite
carrier is providing, under section 122 of title 17, United
States Code, any secondary transmissions in high defini-
tion format to subscribers located within the local market
of a television broadcast station of a primary transmission
made by that station, then such satellite carrier shall
carry the signals in high-definition format of qualified non-
commercial educational television stations located within
that local market in accordance with the following sched-
ule: (i) By December 31, 2010, in at least 50 percent
of the markets in which such satellite carrier provides
such secondary transmissions in high definition for-
mat.(ii) By December 31, 2011, in every market in
which such satellite carrier provides such secondary
transmissions in high definition format.
(B) N EW INITIATION OF SERVICE.—If, on or after the
date of enactment of the Satellite Television Extension and
Localism Act of 2010, an eligible satellite carrier initiates
the provision, under section 122 of title 17, United States
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00224 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
225 Sec. 338COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Code, of any secondary transmissions in high definition
format to subscribers located within the local market of a
television broadcast station of a primary transmission
made by that station, then such satellite carrier shall
carry the signals in high-definition format of all qualified
noncommercial educational television stations located
within that local market.
(b) GOOD SIGNAL REQUIRED.—
(1) COSTS.—A television broadcast station asserting its
right to carriage under subsection (a) shall be required to bear
the costs associated with delivering a good quality signal to the
designated local receive facility of the satellite carrier or to an-
other facility that is acceptable to at least one-half the stations
asserting the right to carriage in the local market.
(2) REGULATIONS.—The regulations issued under sub-
section (g) shall set forth the obligations necessary to carry out
this subsection.
(c) DUPLICATION NOT REQUIRED.—
(1) COMMERCIAL STATIONS.—Notwithstanding subsection
(a)(1), a satellite carrier shall not be required to carry upon re-
quest the signal of any local commercial television broadcast
station that substantially duplicates the signal of another local
commercial television broadcast station which is secondarily
transmitted by the satellite carrier within the same local mar-
ket, or to carry upon request the signals of more than one local
commercial television broadcast station in a single local mar-
ket that is affiliated with a particular television network un-
less such stations are licensed to communities in different
States.
(2) NONCOMMERCIAL STATIONS.—The Commission shall
prescribe regulations limiting the carriage requirements under
subsection (a) of satellite carriers with respect to the carriage
of multiple local noncommercial television broadcast stations.
To the extent possible, such regulations shall provide the same
degree of carriage by satellite carriers of such multiple stations
as is provided by cable systems under section 615.
(d) CHANNEL POSITIONING.—No satellite carrier shall be re-
quired to provide the signal of a local television broadcast station
to subscribers in that station’s local market on any particular chan-
nel number or to provide the signals in any particular order, except
that the satellite carrier shall retransmit the signal of the local tel-
evision broadcast stations to subscribers in the stations’ local mar-
ket on contiguous channels and provide access to such station’s sig-
nals at a nondiscriminatory price and in a nondiscriminatory man-
ner on any navigational device, on-screen program guide, or menu.
(e) COMPENSATION FOR CARRIAGE.—A satellite carrier shall not
accept or request monetary payment or other valuable consider-
ation in exchange either for carriage of local television broadcast
stations in fulfillment of the requirements of this section or for
channel positioning rights provided to such stations under this sec-
tion, except that any such station may be required to bear the costs
associated with delivering a good quality signal to the local receive
facility of the satellite carrier.
(f) REMEDIES.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00225 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
226Sec. 338 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) COMPLAINTS BY BROADCAST STATIONS.—Whenever a
local television broadcast station believes that a satellite car-
rier has failed to meet its obligations under subsections (b)
through (e) of this section, such station shall notify the carrier,
in writing, of the alleged failure and identify its reasons for be-
lieving that the satellite carrier failed to comply with such obli-
gations. The satellite carrier shall, within 30 days after such
written notification, respond in writing to such notification and
comply with such obligations or state its reasons for believing
that it is in compliance with such obligations. A local television
broadcast station that disputes a response by a satellite carrier
that it is in compliance with such obligations may obtain re-
view of such denial or response by filing a complaint with the
Commission. Such complaint shall allege the manner in which
such satellite carrier has failed to meet its obligations and the
basis for such allegations.
(2) OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND.—The Commission shall af-
ford the satellite carrier against which a complaint is filed
under paragraph (1) an opportunity to present data and argu-
ments to establish that there has been no failure to meet its
obligations under this section.
(3) REMEDIAL ACTIONS; DISMISSAL.—Within 120 days after
the date a complaint is filed under paragraph (1), the Commis-
sion shall determine whether the satellite carrier has met its
obligations under subsections (b) through (e). If the Commis-
sion determines that the satellite carrier has failed to meet
such obligations, the Commission shall order the satellite car-
rier to take appropriate remedial action. If the Commission de-
termines that the satellite carrier has fully met the require-
ments of such subsections, the Commission shall dismiss the
complaint.
(g) CARRIAGE OF LOCAL STATIONS ON A SINGLE RECEPTION AN-
TENNA.—
(1) S INGLE RECEPTION ANTENNA.—Each satellite carrier
that retransmits the signals of local television broadcast sta-
tions in a local market shall retransmit such stations in such
market so that a subscriber may receive such stations by
means of a single reception antenna and associated equipment.
(2) ADDITIONAL RECEPTION ANTENNA.—If the carrier re-
transmits the signals of local television broadcast stations in a
local market in high definition format, the carrier shall re-
transmit such signals in such market so that a subscriber may
receive such signals by means of a single reception antenna
and associated equipment, but such antenna and associated
equipment may be separate from the single reception antenna
and associated equipment used to comply with paragraph (1).
(h) A DDITIONAL NOTICES TO SUBSCRIBERS, NETWORKS, AND
STATIONS CONCERNING SIGNAL CARRIAGE.—
(1) NOTICES TO AND ELECTIONS BY SUBSCRIBERS CON-
CERNING GRANDFATHERED SIGNALS.—Any carrier that provides
a distant signal of a network station to a subscriber pursuant
section 339(a)(2)(A) shall—
(A) within 60 days after the local signal of a network
station of the same television network is available pursu-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00226 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
227 Sec. 338COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ant to section 338, or within 60 days after the date of en-
actment of the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reau-
thorization Act of 2004, whichever is later, send a notice
to the subscriber—
(i) offering to substitute the local network signal
for the duplicating distant network signal; and
(ii) informing the subscriber that, if the subscriber
fails to respond in 60 days, the subscriber will lose the
distant network signal but will be permitted to sub-
scribe to the local network signal; and
(B) if the subscriber—
(i) elects to substitute such local network signal
within such 60 days, switch such subscriber to such
local network signal within 10 days after the end of
such 60-day period; or
(ii) fails to respond within such 60 days, terminate
the distant network signal within 10 days after the
end of such 60-day period.
(2) NOTICE TO STATION LICENSEES OF COMMENCEMENT OF
LOCAL-INTO-LOCAL SERVICE.—
(A) NOTICE REQUIRED.—Within 180 days after the date
of enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and
Reauthorization Act of 2004, the Commission shall revise
the regulations under this section relating to notice to
broadcast station licensees to comply with the require-
ments of this paragraph.
(B) C ONTENTS OF COMMENCEMENT NOTICE.—The notice
required by such regulations shall inform each television
broadcast station licensee within any local market in
which a satellite carrier proposes to commence carriage of
signals of stations from that market, not later than 60
days prior to the commencement of such carriage—
(i) of the carrier’s intention to launch local-into-
local service under this section in a local market, the
identity of that local market, and the location of the
carrier’s proposed local receive facility for that local
market;
(ii) of the right of such licensee to elect carriage
under this section or grant retransmission consent
under section 325(b);
(iii) that such licensee has 30 days from the date
of the receipt of such notice to make such election; and
(iv) that failure to make such election will result
in the loss of the right to demand carriage under this
section for the remainder of the 3-year cycle of car-
riage under section 325.
(C) TRANSMISSION OF NOTICES.—Such regulations shall
require that each satellite carrier shall transmit the no-
tices required by such regulation via certified mail to the
address for such television station licensee listed in the
consolidated database system maintained by the Commis-
sion.
(i) PRIVACY RIGHTS OF SATELLITE SUBSCRIBERS.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00227 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
228Sec. 338 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) NOTICE.—At the time of entering into an agreement to
provide any satellite service or other service to a subscriber
and at least once a year thereafter, a satellite carrier shall pro-
vide notice in the form of a separate, written statement to such
subscriber which clearly and conspicuously informs the sub-
scriber of—
(A) the nature of personally identifiable information
collected or to be collected with respect to the subscriber
and the nature of the use of such information;
(B) the nature, frequency, and purpose of any disclo-
sure which may be made of such information, including an
identification of the types of persons to whom the disclo-
sure may be made;
(C) the period during which such information will be
maintained by the satellite carrier;
(D) the times and place at which the subscriber may
have access to such information in accordance with para-
graph (5); and
(E) the limitations provided by this section with re-
spect to the collection and disclosure of information by a
satellite carrier and the right of the subscriber under para-
graphs (7) and (9) to enforce such limitations.
In the case of subscribers who have entered into such an agree-
ment before the effective date of this subsection, such notice
shall be provided within 180 days of such date and at least
once a year thereafter.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this subsection, other
than paragraph (9)—
(A) the term ‘‘personally identifiable information’’ does
not include any record of aggregate data which does not
identify particular persons;
(B) the term ‘‘other service’’ includes any wire or radio
communications service provided using any of the facilities
of a satellite carrier that are used in the provision of sat-
ellite service; and
(C) the term ‘‘satellite carrier’’ includes, in addition to
persons within the definition of satellite carrier, any per-
son who—
(i) is owned or controlled by, or under common
ownership or control with, a satellite carrier; and
(ii) provides any wire or radio communications
service.
(3) PROHIBITIONS.—
(A) CONSENT TO COLLECTION.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), a satellite carrier shall not use any fa-
cilities used by the satellite carrier to collect personally
identifiable information concerning any subscriber without
the prior written or electronic consent of the subscriber
concerned.
(B) EXCEPTIONS.—A satellite carrier may use such fa-
cilities to collect such information in order to—
(i) obtain information necessary to render a sat-
ellite service or other service provided by the satellite
carrier to the subscriber; or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00228 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
229 Sec. 338COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) detect unauthorized reception of satellite com-
munications.
(4) DISCLOSURE.—
(A) CONSENT TO DISCLOSURE.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), a satellite carrier shall not disclose per-
sonally identifiable information concerning any subscriber
without the prior written or electronic consent of the sub-
scriber concerned and shall take such actions as are nec-
essary to prevent unauthorized access to such information
by a person other than the subscriber or satellite carrier.
(B) EXCEPTIONS.—A satellite carrier may disclose such
information if the disclosure is—
(i) necessary to render, or conduct a legitimate
business activity related to, a satellite service or other
service provided by the satellite carrier to the sub-
scriber;
(ii) subject to paragraph (9), made pursuant to a
court order authorizing such disclosure, if the sub-
scriber is notified of such order by the person to whom
the order is directed;
(iii) a disclosure of the names and addresses of
subscribers to any satellite service or other service,
if—
(I) the satellite carrier has provided the sub-
scriber the opportunity to prohibit or limit such
disclosure; and
(II) the disclosure does not reveal, directly or
indirectly, the—
(aa) extent of any viewing or other use by
the subscriber of a satellite service or other
service provided by the satellite carrier; or
(bb) the nature of any transaction made
by the subscriber over any facilities used by
the satellite carrier; or
(iv) to a government entity as authorized under
chapter 119, 121, or 206 of title 18, United States
Code, except that such disclosure shall not include
records revealing satellite subscriber selection of video
programming from a satellite carrier.
(5) ACCESS BY SUBSCRIBER.—A satellite subscriber shall be
provided access to all personally identifiable information re-
garding that subscriber which is collected and maintained by
a satellite carrier. Such information shall be made available to
the subscriber at reasonable times and at a convenient place
designated by such satellite carrier. A satellite subscriber shall
be provided reasonable opportunity to correct any error in such
information.
(6) DESTRUCTION OF INFORMATION.—A satellite carrier
shall destroy personally identifiable information if the informa-
tion is no longer necessary for the purpose for which it was col-
lected and there are no pending requests or orders for access
to such information under paragraph (5) or pursuant to a court
order.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00229 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
230Sec. 338 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(7) PENALTIES.—Any person aggrieved by any act of a sat-
ellite carrier in violation of this section may bring a civil action
in a United States district court. The court may award—
(A) actual damages but not less than liquidated dam-
ages computed at the rate of $100 a day for each day of
violation or $1,000, whichever is higher;
(B) punitive damages; and
(C) reasonable attorneys’ fees and other litigation costs
reasonably incurred.
The remedy provided by this subsection shall be in addition to
any other lawful remedy available to a satellite subscriber.
(8) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this title shall be
construed to prohibit any State from enacting or enforcing laws
consistent with this section for the protection of subscriber pri-
vacy.
(9) COURT ORDERS.—Except as provided in paragraph
(4)(B)(iv), a governmental entity may obtain personally identi-
fiable information concerning a satellite subscriber pursuant to
a court order only if, in the court proceeding relevant to such
court order—
(A) such entity offers clear and convincing evidence
that the subject of the information is reasonably suspected
of engaging in criminal activity and that the information
sought would be material evidence in the case; and
(B) the subject of the information is afforded the op-
portunity to appear and contest such entity’s claim.
(j) REGULATIONS BY COMMISSION.—Within 1 year after the date
of the enactment of this section, the Commission shall issue regula-
tions implementing this section following a rulemaking proceeding.
The regulations prescribed under this section shall include require-
ments on satellite carriers that are comparable to the requirements
on cable operators under sections 614(b)(3) and (4) and 615(g)(1)
and (2).
(k) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) DISTRIBUTOR.—The term ‘‘distributor’’ means an entity
which contracts to distribute secondary transmissions from a
satellite carrier and, either as a single channel or in a package
with other programming, provides the secondary transmission
either directly to individual subscribers or indirectly through
other program distribution entities.
(2) ELIGIBLE SATELLITE CARRIER.—The term ‘‘eligible sat-
ellite carrier’’ means any satellite carrier that is not a party to
a carriage contract that—
(A) governs carriage of at least 30 qualified non-
commercial educational television stations; and
(B) is in force and effect within 150 days after the date
of enactment of the Satellite Television Extension and Lo-
calism Act of 2010.
(3) LOCAL RECEIVE FACILITY.—The term ‘‘local receive facil-
ity’’ means the reception point in each local market which a
satellite carrier designates for delivery of the signal of the sta-
tion for purposes of retransmission.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00230 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
231 Sec. 338COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(4) LOCAL MARKET.—The term ‘‘local market’’ has the
meaning given that term under section 122(j) of title 17,
United States Code.
(5) LOW POWER TELEVISION STATION.—The term ‘‘low power
television station’’ means a low power television station as de-
fined under section 74.701(f) of title 47, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, as in effect on June 1, 2004. For purposes of this para-
graph, the term ‘‘low power television station’’ includes a low
power television station that has been accorded primary status
as a Class A television licensee under section 73.6001(a) of title
47, Code of Federal Regulations.
(6) QUALIFIED NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION
STATION.—The term ‘‘qualified noncommercial educational tele-
vision station’’ means any full-power television broadcast sta-
tion that—
(A) under the rules and regulations of the Commission
in effect on March 29, 1990, is licensed by the Commission
as a noncommercial educational broadcast station and is
owned and operated by a public agency, nonprofit founda-
tion, nonprofit corporation, or nonprofit association; and
(B) has as its licensee an entity that is eligible to re-
ceive a community service grant, or any successor grant
thereto, from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, or
any successor organization thereto, on the basis of the for-
mula set forth in section 396(k)(6)(B) of this title.
(7) SATELLITE CARRIER.—The term ‘‘satellite carrier’’ has
the meaning given such term under section 119(d) of title 17,
United States Code.
(8) SECONDARY TRANSMISSION.—The term ‘‘secondary
transmission’’ has the meaning given such term in section
119(d) of title 17, United States Code.
(9) SUBSCRIBER.—The term ‘‘subscriber’’ has the meaning
given that term under section 122(j) of title 17, United States
Code.
(10) TELEVISION BROADCAST STATION.—The term ‘‘tele-
vision broadcast station’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 325(b)(7).
(l) M ARKET DETERMINATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Following a written request, the Com-
mission may, with respect to a particular commercial television
broadcast station, include additional communities within its
local market or exclude communities from such station’s local
market to better effectuate the purposes of this section.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In considering requests filed under
paragraph (1), the Commission—
(A) may determine that particular communities are
part of more than one local market; and
(B) shall afford particular attention to the value of lo-
calism by taking into account such factors as—
(i) whether the station, or other stations located in
the same area—
(I) have been historically carried on the cable
system or systems within such community; or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00231 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
232Sec. 339 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(II) have been historically carried on the sat-
ellite carrier or carriers serving such community;
(ii) whether the television station provides cov-
erage or other local service to such community;
(iii) whether modifying the local market of the tel-
evision station would promote consumers’ access to tel-
evision broadcast station signals that originate in
their State of residence;
(iv) whether any other television station that is el-
igible to be carried by a satellite carrier in such com-
munity in fulfillment of the requirements of this sec-
tion provides news coverage of issues of concern to
such community or provides carriage or coverage of
sporting and other events of interest to the commu-
nity; and
(v) evidence of viewing patterns in households
that subscribe and do not subscribe to the services of-
fered by multichannel video programming distributors
within the areas served by such multichannel video
programming distributors in such community.
(3) CARRIAGE OF SIGNALS.—
(A) CARRIAGE OBLIGATION.—A market determination
under this subsection shall not create additional carriage
obligations for a satellite carrier if it is not technically and
economically feasible for such carrier to accomplish such
carriage by means of its satellites in operation at the time
of the determination.
(B) DELETION OF SIGNALS.—A satellite carrier shall
not delete from carriage the signal of a commercial tele-
vision broadcast station during the pendency of any pro-
ceeding under this subsection.
(4) DETERMINATIONS.—Not later than 120 days after the
date that a written request is filed under paragraph (1), the
Commission shall grant or deny the request.
(5) N O EFFECT ON ELIGIBILITY TO RECEIVE DISTANT SIG-
NALS.—No modification of a commercial television broadcast
station’s local market pursuant to this subsection shall have
any effect on the eligibility of households in the community af-
fected by such modification to receive distant signals pursuant
to section 339, notwithstanding subsection (h)(1) of this sec-
tion.
SEC. 339. ø47 U.S.C. 339¿ CARRIAGE OF DISTANT TELEVISION STATIONS
BY SATELLITE CARRIERS.
(a) PROVISIONS RELATING TO CARRIAGE OF DISTANT SIGNALS.—
(1) CARRIAGE PERMITTED.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to section 119 of title 17,
United States Code, any satellite carrier shall be per-
mitted to provide the signals of no more than two network
stations in a single day for each television network to any
household not located within the local markets of those
network stations.
(B) ADDITIONAL SERVICE.—In addition to signals pro-
vided under subparagraph (A), any satellite carrier may
also provide service under the statutory license of section
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00232 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
233 Sec. 339COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
122 of title 17, United States Code, to the local market
within which such household is located. The service pro-
vided under section 122 of such title may be in addition to
the two signals provided under section 119 of such title.
(2) REPLACEMENT OF DISTANT SIGNALS WITH LOCAL SIG-
NALS.—Notwithstanding any other provision of paragraph (1),
the following rules shall apply after the date of enactment of
the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act
of 2004: (A) RULES FOR GRANDFATHERED SUBSCRIBERS.—
(i) FOR THOSE RECEIVING DISTANT SIGNALS.—In
the case of a subscriber of a satellite carrier who is eli-
gible to receive the signal of a network station solely
by reason of section 119(e) of title 17, United States
Code (in this subparagraph referred to as a ‘‘distant
signal’’), and who, as of October 1, 2009, is receiving
the distant signal of that network station, the fol-
lowing shall apply:
(I) In a case in which the satellite carrier
makes available to the subscriber the signal of a
local network station affiliated with the same tele-
vision network pursuant to section 338, the car-
rier may only provide the secondary transmissions
of the distant signal of a station affiliated with the
same network to that subscriber—
(aa) if, within 60 days after receiving the
notice of the satellite carrier under section
338(h)(1) of this Act, the subscriber elects to
retain the distant signal; but
(bb) only until such time as the sub-
scriber elects to receive such local signal.
(II) Notwithstanding subclause (I), the carrier
may not retransmit the distant signal to any sub-
scriber who is eligible to receive the signal of a
network station solely by reason of section 119(e)
of title 17, United States Code, unless such car-
rier, within 60 days after the date of the enact-
ment of the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and
Reauthorization Act of 2004, submits to that tele-
vision network the list and statement required by
subparagraph (F)(i).
(ii) FOR THOSE NOT RECEIVING DISTANT SIGNALS.—
In the case of any subscriber of a satellite carrier who
is eligible to receive the distant signal of a network
station solely by reason of section 119(e) of title 17,
United States Code, and who did not receive a distant
signal of a station affiliated with the same network on
October 1, 2009, the carrier may not provide the sec-
ondary transmissions of the distant signal of a station
affiliated with the same network to that subscriber.
(B) RULES FOR OTHER SUBSCRIBERS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a subscriber of a
satellite carrier who is eligible to receive the signal of
a network station under this section (in this subpara-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00233 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
234Sec. 339 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
37 The amendment made by section 204(b)(1)(B)(iv)(I) of Public Law 111–175 was executed to
the probable intent of Congress. Such section provides for an amendment to strike the term
‘‘analog’’. The term appeared also appeared in clause (ii).
38 So in law. See amendment made by section 204(b)(1)(B)(iv)(II) of Public Law 111–175.
graph referred to as a ‘‘distant signal’’), other than
subscribers to whom subparagraph (A) applies, the fol-
lowing shall apply:
(I) In a case in which the satellite carrier
makes available to that subscriber, on January 1,
2005, the signal of a local network station affili-
ated with the same television network pursuant to
section 338, the carrier may only provide the sec-
ondary transmissions of the distant signal of a
station affiliated with the same network to that
subscriber if the subscriber’s satellite carrier, not
later than March 1, 2005, submits to that tele-
vision network the list and statement required by
subparagraph (F)(i).
(II) In a case in which the satellite carrier
does not make available to that subscriber, on
January 1, 2005, the signal of a local network sta-
tion pursuant to section 338, the carrier may only
provide the secondary transmissions of the distant
signal of a station affiliated with the same net-
work to that subscriber if—
(aa) that subscriber seeks to subscribe to
such distant signal before the date on which
such carrier commences to carry pursuant to
section 338 the signals of stations from the
local market of such local network station;
and (bb) the satellite carrier, within 60 days
after such date, submits to each television
network the list and statement required by
subparagraph (F)(ii).
(ii) SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.—A subscriber of a
satellite carrier who was lawfully receiving the distant
signal of a network station on the day before the date
of enactment of the Satellite Television Extension and
Localism Act of 2010 may receive both such distant
signal and the local signal of a network station affili-
ated with the same network until such subscriber
chooses to no longer receive such distant signal from
such carrier, whether or not such subscriber elects to
subscribe to such local signal.
(C) FUTURE APPLICABILITY.—A satellite carrier may
not provide a distant 37 signal (within the meaning of sub-
paragraph (A) or (B)) to a person who—
(i) is not a subscriber lawfully receiving such sec-
ondary transmission as of the date of the enactment of
the 38 Satellite Television Extension and Localism Act
of 2010 and, at the time such person seeks to sub-
scribe to receive such secondary transmission, resides
in a local market where the satellite carrier makes
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00234 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
235 Sec. 339COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
available to that person the signal of a local network
station affiliated with the same television network
pursuant to section 338 (and the retransmission of
such signal by such carrier can reach such subscriber);
or (ii) lawfully subscribes to and receives a distant
signal on or after the date of enactment of the Sat-
ellite Television Extension and Localism Act of 2010,
and, subsequent to such subscription, the satellite car-
rier makes available to that subscriber the signal of a
local network station affiliated with the same network
as the distant signal (and the retransmission of such
signal by such carrier can reach such subscriber), un-
less such person subscribes to the signal of the local
network station within 60 days after such signal is
made available.
(D) SPECIAL RULES FOR DISTANT SIGNALS.—
(i) ELIGIBILITY AND SIGNAL TESTING.—A subscriber
of a satellite carrier shall be eligible to receive a dis-
tant signal of a network station affiliated with the
same network under this section if, with respect to a
local network station, such subscriber—
(I) is a subscriber whose household is not pre-
dicted by the model specified in subsection (c)(3)
to receive the signal intensity required under sec-
tion 73.622(e)(1) or, in the case of a low-power sta-
tion or translator station transmitting an analog
signal, section 73.683(a) of title 47, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, or a successor regulation;
(II) is determined, based on a test conducted
in accordance with section 73.686(d) of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor reg-
ulation, not to be able to receive a signal that ex-
ceeds the signal intensity standard in section
73.622(e)(1) or, in the case of a low-power station
or translator station transmitting an analog sig-
nal, section 73.683(a) of such title, or a successor
regulation; or
(III) is in an unserved household, as deter-
mined under section 119(d)(10)(A) of title 17,
United States Code.
(ii) PRE-ENACTMENT DISTANT SIGNAL SUB-
SCRIBERS.—Any eligible subscriber under this subpara-
graph who is a lawful subscriber to such a distant sig-
nal as of the date of enactment of the Satellite Tele-
vision Extension and Localism Act of 2010 may con-
tinue to receive such distant signal.
(iii) TIME-SHIFTING PROHIBITED.—In a case in
which the satellite carrier makes available to an eligi-
ble subscriber under this subparagraph the signal of a
local network station pursuant to section 338, the car-
rier may only provide the distant signal of a station
affiliated with the same network to that subscriber if,
in the case of any local market in the 48 contiguous
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00235 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
236Sec. 339 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
States of the United States, the distant signal is the
secondary transmission of a station whose prime time
network programming is generally broadcast simulta-
neously with, or later than, the prime time network
programming of the affiliate of the same network in
the local market.
(iv) SAVINGS PROVISION.—Nothing in this subpara-
graph shall be construed to affect a satellite carrier’s
obligations under section 338.
(E) AUTHORITY TO GRANT STATION-SPECIFIC WAIVERS.—
This paragraph shall not prohibit a retransmission of a
distant signal of any distant network station to any sub-
scriber to whom the signal of a local network station affili-
ated with the same network is available, if and to the ex-
tent that such local network station has affirmatively
granted a waiver from the requirements of this paragraph
to such satellite carrier with respect to retransmission of
such distant network station to such subscriber.
(F) N OTICES TO NETWORKS OF DISTANT SIGNAL SUB-
SCRIBERS.—
(i) Within 60 days after the date of enactment of
the Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthoriza-
tion Act of 2004, each satellite carrier that provides a
distant signal of a network station to a subscriber pur-
suant to subparagraph (A) or (B)(i) of this paragraph
shall submit to each network—
(I) a list, aggregated by designated market
area, identifying each subscriber provided such a
signal by—
(aa) name;
(bb) address (street or rural route num-
ber, city, State, and zip code); and
(cc) the distant network signal or signals
received; and
(II) a statement that, to the best of the car-
rier’s knowledge and belief after having made dili-
gent and good faith inquiries, the subscriber is
qualified under the existing law to receive the dis-
tant network signal or signals pursuant to sub-
paragraph (A) or (B)(i) of this paragraph.
(ii) Within 60 days after the date a satellite car-
rier commences to carry pursuant to section 338 the
signals of stations from a local market, such a satellite
carrier that provides a distant signal of a network sta-
tion to a subscriber pursuant to subparagraph (B)(ii)
of this paragraph shall submit to each network—
(I) a list identifying each subscriber in that
local market provided such a signal by—
(aa) name;
(bb) address (street or rural route num-
ber, city, State, and zip code); and
(cc) the distant network signal or signals
received; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00236 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
237 Sec. 339COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
39 So in law. The period following the words ‘‘continuing violation’’ should appear at the end
of the paragraph. See amendment made by section 204(a)(4) of the Satellite Home Viewer Ex-
tension and Reauthorization Act of 2004 (Public Law 108–447; 118 Stat. 3416).
40 Paragraph (1) of subsection (c) was repealed by section 402(i)(7) of division P of Public Law
115–141.
(II) a statement that, to the best of the car-
rier’s knowledge and belief after having made dili-
gent and good faith inquiries, the subscriber is
qualified under the existing law to receive the dis-
tant network signal or signals pursuant to sub-
paragraph (B)(ii) of this paragraph.
(G) OTHER PROVISIONS NOT AFFECTED.—This para-
graph shall not affect the eligibility of a subscriber to re-
ceive secondary transmissions under section 340 of this
Act or as an unserved household included under section
119(a)(12) of title 17, United States Code.
(H) A VAILABLE DEFINED.—For purposes of this para-
graph, a satellite carrier makes available a local signal to
a subscriber or person if the satellite carrier offers that
local signal to other subscribers who reside in the same zip
code as that subscriber or person.
(3) PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.—Any satellite carrier that
knowingly and willfully provides the signals of television sta-
tions to subscribers in violation of this subsection shall be lia-
ble for a forfeiture penalty under section 503 in the amount of
$50,000 for each violation or each day of a continuing viola-
tion., 39 except that paragraph (2)(D) of this subsection, relat-
ing to the provision of distant digital signals, shall be enforce-
able under the provisions of section 340(f)
(b) EXTENSION OF NETWORK NONDUPLICATION, SYNDICATED EX-
CLUSIVITY, AND SPORTS BLACKOUT TO SATELLITE RETRANS-
MISSION.—
(1) EXTENSION OF PROTECTIONS.—Within 45 days after the
date of the enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Improve-
ment Act of 1999, the Commission shall commence a single
rulemaking proceeding to establish regulations that—
(A) apply network nonduplication protection (47 CFR
76.92) syndicated exclusivity protection (47 CFR 76.151),
and sports blackout protection (47 CFR 76.67) to the re-
transmission of the signals of nationally distributed super-
stations by satellite carriers to subscribers; and
(B) to the extent technically feasible and not economi-
cally prohibitive, apply sports blackout protection (47 CFR
76.67) to the retransmission of the signals of network sta-
tions by satellite carriers to subscribers.
(2) DEADLINE FOR ACTION.—The Commission shall com-
plete all actions necessary to prescribe regulations required by
this section so that the regulations shall become effective with-
in 1 year after such date of enactment.
(c) ELIGIBILITY FOR RETRANSMISSION.—
(2) 40 WAIVERS.—A subscriber who is denied the retrans-
mission of a signal of a network station under section 119 of
title 17, United States Code, may request a waiver from such
denial by submitting a request, through such subscriber’s sat-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00237 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
238Sec. 339 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ellite carrier, to the network station asserting that the retrans-
mission is prohibited. The network station shall accept or re-
ject a subscriber’s request for a waiver within 30 days after re-
ceipt of the request. The subscriber shall be permitted to re-
ceive such retransmission under section 119(d)(10)(B) of title
17, United States Code, if such station agrees to the waiver re-
quest and files with the satellite carrier a written waiver with
respect to that subscriber allowing the subscriber to receive
such retransmission. If a television network station fails to ac-
cept or reject a subscriber’s request for a waiver within the 30-
day period after receipt of the request, that station shall be
deemed to agree to the waiver request and have filed such
written waiver.
(3) ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPROVED PREDICTIVE MODEL AND
ON-LOCATION TESTING REQUIRED.—
(A) PREDICTIVE MODEL.—Within 270 days after the
date of the enactment of the Satellite Television Extension
and Localism Act of 2010, the Commission shall develop
and prescribe by rule a point-to-point predictive model for
reliably and presumptively determining the ability of indi-
vidual locations, through the use of an antenna, to receive
signals in accordance with the signal intensity standard in
section 73.622(e)(1) of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, or a successor regulation, including to account for
the continuing operation of translator stations and low
power television stations. In prescribing such model, the
Commission shall rely on the Individual Location Longley-
Rice model set forth by the Commission in CS Docket No.
98–201, as previously revised with respect to analog sig-
nals, and as recommended by the Commission with respect
to digital signals in its Report to Congress in ET Docket
No. 05–182, FCC 05–199 (released December 9, 2005). The
Commission shall establish procedures for the continued
refinement in the application of the model by the use of
additional data as it becomes available.
(B) ON-LOCATION TESTING.—The Commission shall
issue an order completing its rulemaking proceeding in ET
Docket No. 06–94 within 270 days after the date of enact-
ment of the Satellite Television Extension and Localism
Act of 2010. In conducting such rulemaking, the Commis-
sion shall seek ways to minimize consumer burdens associ-
ated with on-location testing.
(4) OBJECTIVE VERIFICATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—If a subscriber’s request for a waiver
under paragraph (2) is rejected and the subscriber submits
to the subscriber’s satellite carrier a request for a test
verifying the subscriber’s inability to receive a signal of the
signal intensity referenced in clause (i) of subsection
(a)(2)(D), the satellite carrier and the network station or
stations asserting that the retransmission is prohibited
with respect to that subscriber shall select a qualified and
independent person to conduct the test referenced in such
clause. Such test shall be conducted within 30 days after
the date the subscriber submits a request for the test. If
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00238 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
239 Sec. 339COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the written findings and conclusions of a test conducted in
accordance with such clause demonstrate that the sub-
scriber does not receive a signal that meets or exceeds the
requisite signal intensity standard in such clause, the sub-
scriber shall not be denied the retransmission of a signal
of a network station under section 119(d)(10)(A) of title 17,
United States Code.
(B) DESIGNATION OF TESTER AND ALLOCATION OF
COSTS.—If the satellite carrier and the network station or
stations asserting that the retransmission is prohibited are
unable to agree on such a person to conduct the test, the
person shall be designated by an independent and neutral
entity designated by the Commission by rule. Unless the
satellite carrier and the network station or stations other-
wise agree, the costs of conducting the test under this
paragraph shall be borne by the satellite carrier, if the sta-
tion’s signal meets or exceeds such requisite signal inten-
sity standard, or by the network station, if its signal fails
to meet or exceed such standard.
(C) AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE BURDEN.—Commission regu-
lations prescribed under this paragraph shall seek to avoid
any undue burden on any party.
(D) REDUCTION OF VERIFICATION BURDENS.—Within 1
year after the date of enactment of the Satellite Home
Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, the
Commission shall by rule exempt from the verification re-
quirements of subparagraph (A) any request for a test
made by a subscriber to a satellite carrier to whom the re-
transmission of the signals of local broadcast stations is
available under section 338 from such carrier.
(E) EXCEPTION.—A satellite carrier may refuse to en-
gage in the testing process. If the carrier does so refuse,
a subscriber in a local market in which the satellite carrier
does not offer the signals of local broadcast stations under
section 338 may, at his or her own expense, authorize a
signal intensity test to be performed pursuant to the proce-
dures specified by the Commission in section 73.686(d) of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, by a tester who is
approved by the satellite carrier and by each affected net-
work station, or who has been previously approved by the
satellite carrier and by each affected network station but
not previously disapproved. A tester may not be so dis-
approved for a test after the tester has commenced such
test. The tester shall give 5 business days advance written
notice to the satellite carrier and to the affected network
station or stations. A signal intensity test conducted in ac-
cordance with this subparagraph shall be determinative of
the signal strength received at that household for purposes
of determining whether the household is capable of receiv-
ing a signal.
(5) DEFINITION.—Notwithstanding subsection (d)(4), for
purposes of paragraphs (2) and (4) of this subsection, the term
‘‘satellite carrier’’ includes a distributor (as defined in section
119(d)(1) of title 17, United States Code), but only if the sat-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00239 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
240Sec. 340 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ellite distributor’s relationship with the subscriber includes
billing, collection, service activation, and service deactivation.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this section:
(1) LOCAL MARKET.—The term ‘‘local market’’ has the
meaning given that term under section 122(j) of title 17,
United States Code.
(2) NATIONALLY DISTRIBUTED SUPERSTATION.—The term
‘‘nationally distributed superstation’’ means a television broad-
cast station, licensed by the Commission, that—
(A) is not owned or operated by or affiliated with a tel-
evision network that, as of January 1, 1995, offered inter-
connected program service on a regular basis for 15 or
more hours per week to at least 25 affiliated television li-
censees in 10 or more States;
(B) on May 1, 1991, was retransmitted by a satellite
carrier and was not a network station at that time; and
(C) was, as of July 1, 1998, retransmitted by a sat-
ellite carrier under the statutory license of section 119 of
title 17, United States Code.
(3) NETWORK STATION.—The term ‘‘network station’’ has
the meaning given such term under section 119(d) of title 17,
United States Code.
(4) SATELLITE CARRIER.—The term ‘‘satellite carrier’’ has
the meaning given such term under section 119(d) of title 17,
United States Code.
(5) TELEVISION NETWORK.—The term ‘‘television network’’
means a television network in the United States which offers
an interconnected program service on a regular basis for 15 or
more hours per week to at least 25 affiliated broadcast stations
in 10 or more States.
SEC. 340. ø47 U.S.C. 340¿ SIGNIFICANTLY VIEWED SIGNALS PERMITTED
TO BE CARRIED.
(a) SIGNIFICANTLY VIEWED STATIONS.—In addition to the
broadcast signals that subscribers may receive under section 338
and 339, a satellite carrier is also authorized to retransmit to a
subscriber located in a community the signal of any station located
outside the local market in which such subscriber is located, to the
extent such signal—
(1) has, before the date of enactment of the Satellite Home
Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, been deter-
mined by the Federal Communications Commission to be a sig-
nal a cable operator may carry as significantly viewed in such
community, except to the extent that such signal is prevented
from being carried by a cable system in such community under
the Commission’s network nonduplication and syndicated ex-
clusivity rules; or
(2) is, after such date of enactment, determined by the
Commission to be significantly viewed in such community in
accordance with the same standards and procedures con-
cerning shares of viewing hours and audience surveys as are
applicable under the rules, regulations, and authorizations of
the Commission to determining with respect to a cable system
whether signals are significantly viewed in a community.
(b) L IMITATIONS.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00240 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
241 Sec. 340COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) SERVICE LIMITED TO SUBSCRIBERS TAKING LOCAL-INTO-
LOCAL SERVICE.—This section shall apply only to retrans-
missions to subscribers of a satellite carrier who receive re-
transmissions of a signal from that satellite carrier pursuant
to section 338.
(2) SERVICE LIMITATIONS.—A satellite carrier may re-
transmit to a subscriber in high definition format the signal of
a station determined by the Commission to be significantly
viewed under subsection (a) only if such carrier also retrans-
mits in high definition format the signal of a station located in
the local market of such subscriber and affiliated with the
same network whenever such format is available from such
station.
(3) LIMITATION NOT APPLICABLE WHERE NO NETWORK AF-
FILIATES.—The limitations in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not
prohibit a retransmission under this section to a subscriber lo-
cated in a local market in which there are no network stations
affiliated with the same television network as the station
whose signal is being retransmitted pursuant to this section.
(4) AUTHORITY TO GRANT STATION-SPECIFIC WAIVERS.—
Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not prohibit a retransmission of
a network station to a subscriber if and to the extent that the
network station in the local market in which the subscriber is
located, and that is affiliated with the same television network,
has privately negotiated and affirmatively granted a waiver
from the requirements of paragraph (1) and (2) to such sat-
ellite carrier with respect to retransmission of the significantly
viewed station to such subscriber.
(c) P UBLICATION AND MODIFICATIONS OF LISTS; REGULATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall—
(A) within 60 days after the date of enactment of the
Satellite Home Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act
of 2004—
(i) publish a list of the stations that are eligible
for retransmission under subsection (a)(1) and the
communities in which such stations are eligible for
such retransmission; and
(ii) commence a rulemaking proceeding to imple-
ment this section by publication of a notice of proposed
rulemaking;
(B) adopt rules pursuant to such rulemaking within 1
year after such date of enactment.
(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF LIST.—The Commission shall
make readily available to the public in electronic form, on the
Internet website of the Commission or other comparable facil-
ity, a list of the stations that are eligible for retransmission
under subsection (a) and the communities in which such sta-
tions are eligible for such retransmission. The Commission
shall update such list within 10 business days after the date
on which the Commission issues an order making any modi-
fication of such stations and communities.
(3) MODIFICATIONS.—In addition to cable operators and tel-
evision broadcast station licensees, the Commission shall per-
mit a satellite carrier to petition for decisions and orders—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00241 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
242Sec. 340 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(A) by which stations may be added to those that are
eligible for retransmission under subsection (a), and by
which communities may be added in which such stations
are eligible for such retransmission; and
(B) by which network nonduplication or syndicated ex-
clusivity regulations are applied to the retransmission in
accordance with subsection (e).
(d) EFFECT ON OTHER OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS.—
(1) NO EFFECT ON CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS.—Carriage of a
signal under this section is not mandatory, and any right of a
station licensee to have the signal of such station carried under
section 338 is not affected by the eligibility of such station to
be carried under this section.
(2) RETRANSMISSION CONSENT RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED.—The
eligibility of the signal of a station to be carried under this sec-
tion does not affect any right of the licensee of such station to
grant (or withhold) retransmission consent under section
325(b)(1).
(e) N ETWORK NONDUPLICATION AND SYNDICATED EXCLU-
SIVITY.—(1) N OT APPLICABLE EXCEPT AS PROVIDED BY COMMISSION
REGULATIONS.—Signals eligible to be carried under this section
are not subject to the Commission’s regulations concerning net-
work nonduplication or syndicated exclusivity unless, pursuant
to regulations adopted by the Commission, the Commission de-
termines to permit network nonduplication or syndicated ex-
clusivity to apply within the appropriate zone of protection.
(2) LIMITATION.—Nothing in this subsection or Commission
regulations shall permit the application of network nonduplica-
tion or syndicated exclusivity regulations to the retransmission
of distant signals of network stations that are carried by a sat-
ellite carrier pursuant to a statutory license under section
119(a)(2)(A) or (B) of title 17, United States Code, with respect
to persons who reside in unserved households, under
119(a)(4)(A), or under section 119(a)(12), of such title.
(f) ENFORCEMENT.—
(1) ORDERS AND DAMAGES.—Upon complaint, the Commis-
sion shall issue a cease and desist order to any satellite carrier
found to have violated this section in carrying any television
broadcast station. Such order may, if a complaining station re-
quests damages—
(A) provide for the award of damages to a complaining
station that establishes that the violation was committed
in bad faith, in an amount up to $50 per subscriber, per
station, per day of the violation; and
(B) provide for the award of damages to a prevailing
satellite carrier if the Commission determines that the
complaint was frivolous, in an amount up to $50 per sub-
scriber alleged to be in violation, per station alleged, per
day of the alleged violation.
(2) COMMISSION DECISION.—The Commission shall issue a
final determination resolving a complaint brought under this
subsection not later than 180 days after the submission of a
complaint under this subsection. The Commission may hear
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00242 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
243 Sec. 340COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
witnesses if it clearly appears, based on written filings by the
parties, that there is a genuine dispute about material facts.
Except as provided in the preceding sentence, the Commission
may issue a final ruling based on written filings by the parties.
(3) REMEDIES IN ADDITION.—The remedies under this sub-
section are in addition to any remedies available under title
17, United States Code.
(4) NO EFFECT ON COPYRIGHT PROCEEDINGS.—Any deter-
mination, action, or failure to act of the Commission under this
subsection shall have no effect on any proceeding under title
17, United States Code, and shall not be introduced in evi-
dence in any proceeding under that title. In no instance shall
a Commission enforcement proceeding under this subsection be
required as a predicate to the pursuit of a remedy available
under title 17.
(g) NOTICES CONCERNING SIGNIFICANTLY VIEWED STATIONS.—
Each satellite carrier that proposes to commence the retrans-
mission of a station pursuant to this section in any local market
shall— (1) not less than 60 days before commencing such retrans-
mission, provide a written notice to any television broadcast
station in such local market of such proposal; and
(2) designate on such carrier’s website all significantly
viewed signals carried pursuant to section 340 and the commu-
nities in which the signals are carried.
(h) ADDITIONAL CORRESPONDING CHANGES IN REGULATIONS.—
(1) COMMUNITY-BY-COMMUNITY ELECTIONS.—The Commis-
sion shall, no later than October 30, 2005, revise section 76.66
of its regulations (47 CFR 76.66), concerning satellite broadcast
signal carriage, to permit (at the next cycle of elections under
section 325) a television broadcast station that is located in a
local market into which a satellite carrier retransmits a tele-
vision broadcast station pursuant to section 338, to elect, with
respect to such satellite carrier, between retransmission con-
sent pursuant to such section 325 and mandatory carriage pur-
suant to section 338 separately for each county within such
station’s local market, if—
(A) the satellite carrier has notified the station, pursu-
ant to paragraph (3), that it intends to carry another affil-
iate of the same network pursuant to this section during
the relevant election period in the station’s local market;
or (B) on the date notification under paragraph (3) was
due, the satellite carrier was retransmitting into the sta-
tion’s local market pursuant to this section an affiliate of
the same television network.
(2) UNIFIED NEGOTIATIONS.—In revising its regulations as
required by paragraph (1), the Commission shall provide that
any such station shall conduct a unified negotiation for the en-
tire portion of its local market for which retransmission con-
sent is elected.
(3) ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.—The Commission shall, no
later than October 30, 2005, revise its regulations to provide
the following:
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00243 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
244Sec. 340 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(A) NOTIFICATIONS BY SATELLITE CARRIER.—A satellite
carrier’s retransmission of television broadcast stations
pursuant to this section shall be subject to the following
limitations:
(i) In any local market in which the satellite car-
rier provides service pursuant to section 338 on the
date of enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer Exten-
sion and Reauthorization Act of 2004, the carrier may
notify a television broadcast station in that market, at
least 60 days prior to any date on which the station
must thereafter make an election under section 76.66
of the Commission’s regulations (47 CFR 76.66), of—
(I) each affiliate of the same television net-
work that the carrier reserves the right to re-
transmit into that station’s local market pursuant
to this section during the next election cycle under
such section of such regulations; and
(II) for each such affiliate, the communities
into which the satellite carrier reserves the right
to make such retransmissions.
(ii) In any local market in which the satellite car-
rier commences service pursuant to section 338 after
the date of enactment of the Satellite Home Viewer
Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004, the carrier
may notify a station in that market, at least 60 days
prior to the introduction of such service in that mar-
ket, and thereafter at least 60 days prior to any date
on which the station must thereafter make an election
under section 76.66 of the Commission’s regulations
(47 CFR 76.66), of each affiliate of the same television
network that the carrier reserves the right to re-
transmit into that station’s local market during the
next election cycle under such section of such regula-
tions.
(iii) Beginning with the 2005 election cycle, a sat-
ellite carrier may only retransmit pursuant to this sec-
tion during the pertinent election period a signal—
(I) as to which it has provided the notifica-
tions set forth in clauses (i) and (ii); or
(II) that it was retransmitting into the local
market under this section as of the date such noti-
fications were due.
(B) HARMONIZATION OF ELECTIONS AND RETRANS-
MISSION CONSENT AGREEMENTS.—If a satellite carrier noti-
fies a television broadcast station that it reserves the right
to retransmit an affiliate of the same television network
during the next election cycle pursuant to this section, the
station may choose between retransmission consent and
mandatory carriage for any portion of the 3-year election
cycle that is not covered by an existing retransmission con-
sent agreement.
(i) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) LOCAL MARKET; SATELLITE CARRIER; SUBSCRIBER; TELE-
VISION BROADCAST STATION.—The terms ‘‘local market’’, ‘‘sat-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00244 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
245 Sec. 341COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
41 The placement of section 341 after section 340 (as added by section 211 of Satellite Home
Viewer Extension and Reauthorization Act of 2004; Public Law 108–447; 118 Stat. 3430) reflects
the probable intent of Congress even though the amendment instruction provides to insert a
new section 341 ‘‘after section 339’’.
ellite carrier’’, ‘‘subscriber’’, and ‘‘television broadcast station’’
have the meanings given such terms in section 338(k).
(2) NETWORK STATION; TELEVISION NETWORK.—The terms
‘‘network station’’ and ‘‘television network’’ have the meanings
given such terms in section 339(d).
(3) COMMUNITY.—The term ‘‘community’’ means—
(A) a county or a cable community, as determined
under the rules, regulations, and authorizations of the
Commission applicable to determining with respect to a
cable system whether signals are significantly viewed; or
(B) a satellite community, as determined under such
rules, regulations, and authorizations (or revisions thereof)
as the Commission may prescribe in implementing the re-
quirements of this section.
SEC. 341. ø47 U.S.C. 341¿ CARRIAGE OF TELEVISION SIGNALS TO CER-
TAIN SUBSCRIBERS. 41
(a)(1) IN GENERAL.—A cable operator or satellite carrier may
elect to retransmit, to subscribers in an eligible county.—
(A) any television broadcast stations that are located in
the State in which the county is located and that any cable op-
erator or satellite carrier was retransmitting to subscribers in
the county on January 1, 2004; or
(B) up to 2 television broadcast stations located in the
State in which the county is located, if the number of television
broadcast stations that the cable operator or satellite carrier is
authorized to carry under paragraph (1) is less than 3.
(2) DEEMED SIGNIFICANTLY VIEWED.—A station described in
subsection (a) is deemed to be significantly viewed in the eligible
county within the meaning of section 76.54 of the Commission’s
regulations (47 CFR 76.54).
(3) DEFINITION OF ELIGIBLE COUNTY.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘eligible county’’ means any 1 of 4 counties that—
(A) are all in a single State;
(B) on January 1, 2004, were each in designated market
areas in which the majority of counties were located in another
State or States; and
(C) as a group had a combined total of 41,340 television
households according to the U.S. Television Household Esti-
mates by Nielsen Media Research for 2003–2004.
(4) LIMITATION.—Carriage of a station under this section shall
be at the option of the cable operator or satellite carrier.
(b) CERTAIN MARKETS.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, a satellite carrier may not carry the signal of a television
station into an adjacent local market that is comprised of only a
portion of a county, other than to unserved households located in
that county.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00245 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
246Sec. 342 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 342. ø47 U.S.C. 342¿ PROCESS FOR ISSUING QUALIFIED CARRIER
CERTIFICATION.
(a) CERTIFICATION.—The Commission shall issue a certification
for the purposes of section 119(g)(3)(A)(iii) of title 17, United States
Code, if the Commission determines that—
(1) a satellite carrier is providing local service pursuant to
the statutory license under section 122 of such title in each
designated market area; and
(2) with respect to each designated market area in which
such satellite carrier was not providing such local service as of
the date of enactment of the Satellite Television Extension and
Localism Act of 2010—
(A) the satellite carrier’s satellite beams are designed,
and predicted by the satellite manufacturer’s pre-launch
test data, to provide a good quality satellite signal to at
least 90 percent of the households in each such designated
market area based on the most recent census data released
by the United States Census Bureau; and
(B) there is no material evidence that there has been
a satellite or sub-system failure subsequent to the sat-
ellite’s launch that precludes the ability of the satellite
carrier to satisfy the requirements of subparagraph (A).
(b) INFORMATION REQUIRED.—Any entity seeking the certifi-
cation provided for in subsection (a) shall submit to the Commis-
sion the following information:
(1) An affidavit stating that, to the best of the affiant’s
knowledge, the satellite carrier provides local service in all des-
ignated market areas pursuant to the statutory license pro-
vided for in section 122 of title 17, United States Code, and
listing those designated market areas in which local service
was provided as of the date of enactment of the Satellite Tele-
vision Extension and Localism Act of 2010.
(2) For each designated market area not listed in para-
graph (1):
(A) Identification of each such designated market area
and the location of its local receive facility.
(B) Data showing the number of households, and maps
showing the geographic distribution thereof, in each such
designated market area based on the most recent census
data released by the United States Census Bureau.
(C) Maps, with superimposed effective isotropically ra-
diated power predictions obtained in the satellite manufac-
turer’s pre-launch tests, showing that the contours of the
carrier’s satellite beams as designed and the geographic
area that the carrier’s satellite beams are designed to
cover are predicted to provide a good quality satellite sig-
nal to at least 90 percent of the households in such des-
ignated market area based on the most recent census data
released by the United States Census Bureau.
(D) For any satellite relied upon for certification under
this section, an affidavit stating that, to the best of the
affiant’s knowledge, there have been no satellite or sub-
system failures subsequent to the satellite’s launch that
would degrade the design performance to such a degree
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00246 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
247 Sec. 342COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
that a satellite transponder used to provide local service to
any such designated market area is precluded from deliv-
ering a good quality satellite signal to at least 90 percent
of the households in such designated market area based on
the most recent census data released by the United States
Census Bureau.
(E) Any additional engineering, designated market
area, or other information the Commission considers nec-
essary to determine whether the Commission shall grant
a certification under this section.
(c) CERTIFICATION ISSUANCE.—
(1) PUBLIC COMMENT.—The Commission shall provide 30
days for public comment on a request for certification under
this section.
(2) DEADLINE FOR DECISION.—The Commission shall grant
or deny a request for certification within 90 days after the date
on which such request is filed.
(d) SUBSEQUENT AFFIRMATION.—An entity granted qualified
carrier status pursuant to section 119(g) of title 17, United States
Code, shall file an affidavit with the Commission 30 months after
such status was granted stating that, to the best of the affiant’s
knowledge, it is in compliance with the requirements for a qualified
carrier.
(e) DEFINITIONS.—For the purposes of this section:
(1) DESIGNATED MARKET AREA.—The term ‘‘designated
market area’’ has the meaning given such term in section
122(j)(2)(C) of title 17, United States Code.
(2) GOOD QUALITY SATELLITE SIGNAL.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—The term ‘‘good quality satellite sig-
nal’’ means—
(i) a satellite signal whose power level as designed
shall achieve reception and demodulation of the signal
at an availability level of at least 99.7 percent using—
(I) models of satellite antennas normally used
by the satellite carrier’s subscribers; and
(II) the same calculation methodology used by
the satellite carrier to determine predicted signal
availability in the top 100 designated market
areas; and
(ii) taking into account whether a signal is in
standard definition format or high definition format,
compression methodology, modulation, error correc-
tion, power level, and utilization of advances in tech-
nology that do not circumvent the intent of this sec-
tion to provide for non-discriminatory treatment with
respect to any comparable television broadcast station
signal, a video signal transmitted by a satellite carrier
such that—
(I) the satellite carrier treats all television
broadcast stations’ signals the same with respect
to statistical multiplexer prioritization; and
(II) the number of video signals in the rel-
evant satellite transponder is not more than the
then current greatest number of video signals car-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00247 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
248Sec. 343 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
42 Section 60602(a) of division F of Public Law 117-58 provides for an amendment to add a
new section 344 to part I of title III of the Communications Act of 1934. Subsection (b) of such
section 60602 provides: ‘‘section 344 of the Communications Act of 1934, as added by subsection
(a), shall be repealed on the day after the date on which the interagency working group estab-
lished under subsection (b)(1) of that section submits the report to Congress under subsection
(g) of that section.’’.
ried on any equivalent transponder serving the
top 100 designated market areas.
(B) DETERMINATION.—For the purposes of subpara-
graph (A), the top 100 designated market areas shall be as
determined by Nielsen Media Research and published in
the Nielsen Station Index Directory and Nielsen Station
Index United States Television Household Estimates or
any successor publication as of the date of a satellite car-
rier’s application for certification under this section.
SEC. 343. ø47 U.S.C. 343¿ CONDITIONS ON COMMERCIAL TERRESTRIAL
OPERATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall not permit commercial
terrestrial operations in the 1525–1559 megahertz band or the
1626.5–1660.5 megahertz band until the date that is 90 days after
the Commission resolves concerns of widespread harmful inter-
ference by such operations in such band to covered GPS devices.
(b) NOTICE TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—At the conclusion of the decision regard-
ing whether to permit such operations in such band, the Com-
mission shall submit to the congressional committees described
in paragraph (2) official copies of the documents containing the
final decision of the Commission. If the decision is to permit
such operations in such band, such documents shall contain or
be accompanied by an explanation of how the concerns de-
scribed in subsection (a) have been resolved.
(2) CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEES DESCRIBED.—The congres-
sional committees described in this paragraph are the fol-
lowing: (A) The Committee on Energy and Commerce and the
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representa-
tives.
(B) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation and the Committee on Armed Services of the
Senate.
(c) COVERED GPS DEVICE DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘covered GPS device’’ means a Global Positioning System device of
the Department of Defense.
SEC. 344. ø47 U.S.C. 344¿ TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERAGENCY WORK-
ING GROUP. 42
(a) DEFINITION.—In this section, the term ‘‘telecommunications
interagency working group’’ means the interagency working group
established under subsection (b)(1).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this section, the Chairman of the Commission, in
partnership with the Secretary of Labor, shall establish within
the Commission an interagency working group to develop rec-
ommendations to address the workforce needs of the tele-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00248 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
249 Sec. 344COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
communications industry, including the safety of that work-
force.
(2) DATE OF ESTABLISHMENT.—The telecommunications
interagency working group shall be considered established on
the date on which a majority of the members of the working
group have been appointed, consistent with subsection (d).
(c) DUTIES.—In developing recommendations under subsection
(b), the telecommunications interagency working group shall—
(1) determine whether, and if so how, any Federal laws,
regulations, guidance, policies, or practices, or any budgetary
constraints, may be amended to strengthen the ability of insti-
tutions of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001)) or for-profit
businesses to establish, adopt, or expand programs intended to
address the workforce needs of the telecommunications indus-
try, including the workforce needed to build and maintain the
5G wireless infrastructure necessary to support 5G wireless
technology;
(2) identify potential policies and programs that could en-
courage and improve coordination among Federal agencies, be-
tween Federal agencies and States, and among States, on tele-
communications workforce needs;
(3) identify ways in which existing Federal programs, in-
cluding programs that help facilitate the employment of vet-
erans and military personnel transitioning into civilian life,
could be leveraged to help address the workforce needs of the
telecommunications industry;
(4) identify ways to improve recruitment in workforce de-
velopment programs in the telecommunications industry;
(5) identify Federal incentives that could be provided to in-
stitutions of higher education, for-profit businesses, State
workforce development boards established under section 101 of
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C.
3111), or other relevant stakeholders to establish or adopt new
programs, expand current programs, or partner with registered
apprenticeship programs, to address the workforce needs of the
telecommunications industry, including such needs in rural
areas;
(6) identify ways to improve the safety of telecommuni-
cations workers, including tower climbers; and
(7) identify ways that trends in wages, benefits, and work-
ing conditions in the telecommunications industry impact re-
cruitment of employees in the sector.
(d) MEMBERS.—The telecommunications interagency working
group shall be composed of the following representatives of Federal
agencies and relevant non-Federal industry and labor stakeholder
organizations:
(1) A representative of the Department of Education, ap-
pointed by the Secretary of Education.
(2) A representative of the National Telecommunications
and Information Administration, appointed by the Assistant
Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.
(3) A representative of the Commission, appointed by the
Chairman of the Commission.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00249 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
250Sec. 344 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(4) A representative of a registered apprenticeship pro-
gram in construction or maintenance, appointed by the Sec-
retary of Labor.
(5) A representative of a telecommunications industry as-
sociation, appointed by the Chairman of the Commission.
(6) A representative of an Indian Tribe or Tribal organiza-
tion, appointed by the Chairman of the Commission.
(7) A representative of a rural telecommunications carrier,
appointed by the Chairman of the Commission.
(8) A representative of a telecommunications contractor
firm, appointed by the Chairman of the Commission.
(9) A representative of an institution of higher education
described in section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1067q(a)), appointed by the Secretary of Education.
(10) A public interest advocate for tower climber safety,
appointed by the Secretary of Labor.
(11) A representative of the Directorate of Construction of
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, appointed
by the Secretary of Labor.
(12) A representative of a labor organization representing
the telecommunications workforce, appointed by the Secretary
of Labor.
(e) NO COMPENSATION.—A member of the telecommunications
interagency working group shall serve without compensation.
(f) OTHER MATTERS.—
(1) CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR.—The telecommunications inter-
agency working group shall name a chair and a vice chair, who
shall be responsible for organizing the business of the working
group.
(2) SUBGROUPS.—The chair and vice chair of the tele-
communications interagency working group, in consultation
with the other members of the telecommunications interagency
working group, may establish such subgroups as necessary to
help conduct the work of the telecommunications interagency
working group.
(3) SUPPORT.—The Commission and the Secretary of Labor
may detail employees of the Commission and the Department
of Labor, respectively, to assist and support the work of the
telecommunications interagency working group, though such a
detailee shall not be considered to be a member of the working
group.
(g) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(1) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 1 year after the
date on which the telecommunications interagency working
group is established, the working group shall submit a report
containing its recommendations to address the workforce needs
of the telecommunications industry to—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation of the Senate;
(B) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions of the Senate;
(C) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00250 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
251 Sec. 345COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(D) the Committee on Education and Labor of the
House of Representatives;
(E) the Department of Labor; and
(F) the Commission.
(2) MAJORITY SUPPORT.—The telecommunications inter-
agency working group may not submit the report under para-
graph (1) unless the report has the support of not less than the
majority of the members of the working group.
(3) VIEWS.—The telecommunications interagency working
group shall—
(A) include with the report submitted under paragraph
(1) any concurring or dissenting view offered by a member
of the working group; and
(B) identify each member to whom each concurring or
dissenting view described in subparagraph (A) should be
attributed.
(4) PUBLIC POSTING.—The Commission and the Secretary
of Labor shall make a copy of the report submitted under para-
graph (1) available to the public on the websites of the Com-
mission and the Department of Labor, respectively.
(h) NONAPPLICABILITY OF FACA.—The Federal Advisory Com-
mittee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the telecommuni-
cations interagency working group.
SEC. 345. ø47 U.S. C. 345¿ PROTECTION OF SURVIVORS OF DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE, HUMAN TRAFFICKING, AND RELATED CRIMES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ABUSER.—The term ‘‘abuser’’ means an individual who
has committed or allegedly committed a covered act against—
(A) an individual who seeks relief under subsection
(b); or
(B) an individual in the care of an individual who
seeks relief under subsection (b).
(2) COVERED ACT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘covered act’’ means con-
duct that constitutes—
(i) a crime described in section 40002(a) of the Vi-
olence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12291(a)), including domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, stalking, and sex trafficking;
(ii) an act or practice described in paragraph (11)
or (12) of section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protec-
tion Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102) (relating to severe
forms of trafficking in persons and sex trafficking, re-
spectively); or
(iii) an act under State law, Tribal law, or the
Uniform Code of Military Justice that is similar to an
offense described in clause (i) or (ii).
(B) CONVICTION NOT REQUIRED.—Nothing in subpara-
graph (A) shall be construed to require a criminal convic-
tion or any other determination of a court in order for con-
duct to constitute a covered act.
(3) COVERED PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘covered provider’’
means a provider of a private mobile service or commercial mo-
bile service, as those terms are defined in section 332(d).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00251 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
252Sec. 345 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(4) PRIMARY ACCOUNT HOLDER.—The term ‘‘primary ac-
count holder’’ means an individual who is a party to a mobile
service contract with a covered provider.
(5) SHARED MOBILE SERVICE CONTRACT.—The term ‘‘shared
mobile service contract’’—
(A) means a mobile service contract for an account
that includes not less than 2 consumers; and
(B) does not include enterprise services offered by a
covered provider.
(6) SURVIVOR.—The term ‘‘survivor’’ means an individual
who is not less than 18 years old and—
(A) against whom a covered act has been committed or
allegedly committed; or
(B) who cares for another individual against whom a
covered act has been committed or allegedly committed
(provided that the individual providing care did not com-
mit or allegedly commit the covered act).
(b) SEPARATION OF LINES FROM SHARED MOBILE SERVICE CON-
TRACT.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—Not later than 2 business days after re-
ceiving a completed line separation request from a survivor
pursuant to subsection (c), a covered provider shall, as applica-
ble, with respect to a shared mobile service contract under
which the survivor and the abuser each use a line—
(A) separate the line of the survivor, and the line of
any individual in the care of the survivor, from the shared
mobile service contract; or
(B) separate the line of the abuser from the shared
mobile service contract.
(2) LIMITATIONS ON PENALTIES, FEES, AND OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Except as provided in paragraphs (5) through (7), a
covered provider may not make separation of a line from a
shared mobile service contract under paragraph (1) contingent
on any requirement other than the requirements under sub-
section (c), including—
(A) payment of a fee, penalty, or other charge;
(B) maintaining contractual or billing responsibility of
a separated line with the provider;
(C) approval of separation by the primary account
holder, if the primary account holder is not the survivor;
(D) a prohibition or limitation, including one described
in subparagraph (A), on number portability, provided such
portability is technically feasible, or a request to change
phone numbers;
(E) a prohibition or limitation on the separation of
lines as a result of arrears accrued by the account;
(F) an increase in the rate charged for the mobile serv-
ice plan of the primary account holder with respect to serv-
ice on any remaining line or lines; or
(G) any other limitation or requirement not listed
under subsection (c).
(3) R ULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in paragraph (2)
shall be construed to require a covered provider to provide a
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00252 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
253 Sec. 345COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
rate plan for the primary account holder that is not otherwise
commercially available.
(4) REMOTE OPTION.—A covered provider shall offer a sur-
vivor the ability to submit a line separation request under sub-
section (c) through secure remote means that are easily navi-
gable, provided that remote options are commercially available
and technically feasible.
(5) RESPONSIBILITY FOR TRANSFERRED TELEPHONE NUM-
BERS.—Notwithstanding paragraph (2), beginning on the date
on which a covered provider transfers billing responsibilities
for and use of a telephone number or numbers to a survivor
under paragraph (1)(A) in response to a line separation request
submitted by the survivor under subsection (c), unless ordered
otherwise by a court, the survivor shall assume financial re-
sponsibility, including for monthly service costs, for the trans-
ferred telephone number or numbers.
(6) RESPONSIBILITY FOR TRANSFERRED TELEPHONE NUMBERS
FROM A SURVIVOR’S ACCOUNT.—Notwithstanding paragraph (2),
upon the transfer of a telephone number under paragraph
(1)(B) in response to a line separation request submitted by a
survivor under subsection (c), the survivor shall have no fur-
ther financial responsibilities to the transferring covered pro-
vider for the services provided by the transferring covered pro-
vider for the telephone number or for any mobile device associ-
ated with the telephone number.
(7) RESPONSIBILITY FOR MOBILE DEVICE.—Notwithstanding
paragraph (2), beginning on the date on which a covered pro-
vider transfers billing responsibilities for and rights to a tele-
phone number or numbers to a survivor under paragraph
(1)(A) in response to a line separation request submitted by the
survivor under subsection (c), unless otherwise ordered by a
court, the survivor shall not assume financial responsibility for
any mobile device associated with the separated line, unless
the survivor purchased the mobile device, or affirmatively
elects to maintain possession of the mobile device.
(8) NOTICE TO SURVIVOR.—If a covered provider separates
a line from a shared mobile service contract under paragraph
(1) and the primary account holder is not the survivor, the cov-
ered provider shall notify the survivor of the date on which the
covered provider intends to give any formal notice to the pri-
mary account holder.
(c) LINE SEPARATION REQUEST.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a survivor seeking to sepa-
rate a line from a shared mobile service contract, the survivor
shall submit to the covered provider a line separation request
that— (A) verifies that an individual who uses a line under
the shared mobile service contract has committed or alleg-
edly committed a covered act against the survivor or an in-
dividual in the survivor’s care, by providing—
(i) a copy of a signed affidavit from a licensed
medical or mental health care provider, licensed mili-
tary medical or mental health care provider, licensed
social worker, victim services provider, or licensed
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00253 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
254Sec. 345 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
military victim services provider, or an employee of a
court, acting within the scope of that person’s employ-
ment; or
(ii) a copy of a police report, statements provided
by police, including military police, to magistrates or
judges, charging documents, protective or restraining
orders, military protective orders, or any other official
record that documents the covered act;
(B) in the case of relief sought under subsection
(b)(1)(A), with respect to—
(i) a line used by the survivor that the survivor
seeks to have separated, states that the survivor is the
user of that specific line; and
(ii) a line used by an individual in the care of the
survivor that the survivor seeks to have separated, in-
cludes an affidavit setting forth that the individual—
(I) is in the care of the survivor; and
(II) is the user of that specific line; and
(C) requests relief under subparagraph (A) or (B) of
subsection (b)(1) and identifies each line that should be
separated.
(2) COMMUNICATIONS FROM COVERED PROVIDERS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A covered provider shall notify a
survivor seeking relief under subsection (b) in clear and
accessible language that the covered provider may contact
the survivor, or designated representative of the survivor,
to confirm the line separation, or if the covered provider is
unable to complete the line separation for any reason, pur-
suant to subparagraphs (B) and (C).
(B) REMOTE MEANS.—A covered provider shall notify a
survivor under subparagraph (A) through remote means,
provided that remote means are commercially available
and technically feasible.
(C) ELECTION OF MANNER OF CONTACT.—When com-
pleting a line separation request submitted by a survivor
through remote means under paragraph (1), a covered pro-
vider shall allow the survivor to elect in the manner in
which the covered provider may—
(i) contact the survivor, or designated representa-
tive of the survivor, in response to the request, if nec-
essary; or
(ii) notify the survivor, or designated representa-
tive of the survivor, of the inability of the covered pro-
vider to complete the line separation.
(3) E NHANCED PROTECTIONS UNDER STATE LAW.—This sub-
section shall not affect any law or regulation of a State pro-
viding communications protections for survivors (or any similar
category of individuals) that has less stringent requirements
for providing evidence of a covered act (or any similar category
of conduct) than this subsection.
(d) CONFIDENTIAL AND SECURE TREATMENT OF PERSONAL IN-
FORMATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding section 222(c)(2), a cov-
ered provider and any officer, director, employee, vendor, or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00254 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
255 Sec. 351COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
agent thereof shall treat any information submitted by a sur-
vivor under subsection (c) as confidential and securely dispose
of the information not later than 90 days after receiving the in-
formation.
(2) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in paragraph (1)
shall be construed to prohibit a covered provider from main-
taining, for longer than the period specified in that paragraph,
a record that verifies that a survivor fulfilled the conditions of
a line separation request under subsection (c).
(e) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION TO CONSUMERS.—A covered
provider shall make information about the options and process de-
scribed in subsections (b) and (c) readily available to consumers—
(1) on the website and the mobile application of the pro-
vider;
(2) in physical stores; and
(3) in other forms of public-facing consumer communica-
tion.
(f) TECHNICAL INFEASIBILITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The requirement to effectuate a line sep-
aration request pursuant to subsection (b)(1) shall not apply to
a covered provider if the covered provider cannot operationally
or technically effectuate the request.
(2) NOTIFICATION.—If a covered provider cannot operation-
ally or technically effectuate a line separation request as de-
scribed in paragraph (1), the covered provider shall—
(A) notify the survivor who submitted the request of
that infeasibility—
(i) at the time of the request; or
(ii) in the case of a survivor who has submitted
the request using remote means, not later than 2 busi-
ness days after receiving the request; and
(B) provide the survivor with information about other
alternatives to submitting a line separation request, in-
cluding starting a new line of service.
(g) LIABILITY PROTECTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A covered provider and any officer, direc-
tor, employee, vendor, or agent thereof shall not be subject to
liability for any claims deriving from an action taken or omis-
sion made with respect to compliance with this section and the
rules adopted to implement this section.
(2) COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this subsection
shall limit the authority of the Commission to enforce this sec-
tion or any rules or regulations promulgated by the Commis-
sion pursuant to this section.
PART II—RADIO EQUIPMENT AND RADIO
OPERATORS ON BOARD SHIP
SEC. 351. ø47 U.S.C. 351¿ SHIP RADIO STATIONS AND OPERATIONS.
(a) Except as provided in section 352 hereof it shall be unlaw-
ful—
(1) For any ship of the United States, other than a cargo ship
of less than three hundred gross tons, to be navigated in the open
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00255 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
256Sec. 352 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
sea outside of a harbor or port, or for any ship of the United States
or any foreign country, other than a cargo ship of less than three
hundred gross tons, to leave or attempt to leave any harbor or port
of the United States for a voyage in the open sea, unless such ship
is equipped with an efficient radio station in operating condition,
as specified by subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph, in
charge of and operated by one or more radio officers or operators,
adequately installed and protected so as to insure proper operation,
and so as not to endanger the ship and radio station as hereinafter
provided, and, in the case of a ship of the United States, unless
there is on board a valid station license issued in accordance with
this Act.
(A) Passenger ships irrespective of size and cargo ships of
one thousand six hundred gross tons and upward shall be
equipped with a radiotelegraph station complying with the pro-
visions of this part;
(B) Cargo ships of three hundred gross tons and upward
but less than one thousand six hundred gross tons, unless
equipped with a radiotelegraph station complying with the pro-
visions of this part, shall be equipped with a radiotelephone
station complying with the provisions of this part.
(2) For any ship of the United States of one thousand six hun-
dred gross tons and upward to be navigated in the open sea outside
of a harbor or port, or for any such ship of the United States or
any foreign country to leave or attempt to leave any harbor or port
of the United States for a voyage in the open sea, unless such ship
is equipped with efficient radio direction finding apparatus ap-
proved by the Commission, properly adjusted in operating condition
as hereinafter provided.
(b) A ship which is not subject to the provisions of this part
at the time of its departure on a voyage shall not become subject
to such provisions on account of any deviation from its intended
voyage due to stress of weather or any other cause over which nei-
ther the master, the owner, nor the charterer (if any) has control.
SEC. 352. ø47 U.S.C. 352¿ EXCEPTIONS.
(a) The provisions of this part shall not apply to—
(1) A ship of war;
(2) A ship of the United States belonging to and operated by
the Government, except a ship of the Maritime Administration of
the Department of Transportation, the Inland and Coastwise Wa-
terways Service, or the Panama Canal Company;
(3) A foreign ship belonging to a country which is a party to
any Safety Convention in force between the United States and that
country which ship carries a valid certificate exempting said ship
from the radio provisions of that Convention, or which ship con-
forms to the radio requirements of such Convention or Regulations
and has on board a valid certificate to that effect, or which ship is
not subject to the radio provisions of any such Convention;
(4) Yachts of less than six hundred gross tons not subject to
the radio provisions of the Safety Convention;
(5) Vessels in tow;
(6) A ship navigating solely on any bays, sounds, rivers, or pro-
tected waters within the jurisdiction of the United States, or to a
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00256 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
257 Sec. 353COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ship leaving or attempting to leave any harbor or port of the
United States for a voyage solely on any bays, sounds, rivers, or
protected waters within the jurisdiction of the United States;
(7) A ship navigating solely on the Great Lakes of North Amer-
ica and the River Saint Lawrence as far east as a straight line
drawn from Cap des Rosiers to West Point, Anticosti Island, and,
on the north side of Anticosti Island, the sixty-third meridian, or
to a ship leaving or attempting to leave any harbor or port of the
United States for a voyage solely on such waters and within such
area;
(8) A ship which is navigated during the course of a voyage
both on the Great Lakes of North America and in the open sea,
during the period while such ship is being navigated within the
Great Lakes of North America and their connecting and tributary
waters as far east as the lower exit of the Saint Lambert lock at
Montreal in the Province of Quebec, Canada.
(b) Except for nuclear ships, the Commission may, if it con-
siders that the route or the conditions of the voyage or other cir-
cumstances are such as to render a radio station unreasonable or
unnecessary for the purposes of this part, exempt from the provi-
sions of this part any ship or class of ships which falls within any
of the following descriptions:
(1) Passenger ships which in the course of their voyage do not
go more than twenty nautical miles from the nearest land or, alter-
natively, do not go more than two hundred nautical miles between
two consecutive ports;
(2) Cargo ships which in the course of their voyage do not go
more than one hundred and fifty nautical miles from the nearest
land;
(3) Passenger vessels of less than one hundred gross tons not
subject to the radio provisions of the Safety Convention;
(4) Sailing ships.
(c) If, because of unforeseeable failure of equipment, a ship is
unable to comply with the equipment requirements of this part
without undue delay of the ship, the mileage limitations set forth
in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) shall not apply: Pro-
vided, That exemption of the ship is found to be reasonable or nec-
essary in accordance with subsection (b) to permit the ship to pro-
ceed to a port where the equipment deficiency may be remedied.
(d) Except for nuclear ships, and except for ships of five thou-
sand gross tons and upward which are subject to the Safety Con-
vention, the Commission may exempt from the requirements, for
radio direction finding apparatus, of this part and of the Safety
Convention, any ship which falls within the descriptions set forth
in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (b) of this section,
if it considers that the route on conditions of the voyage or other
circumstances are such as to render such apparatus unreasonable
or unnecessary.
SEC. 353. ø47 U.S.C. 353¿ RADIO OFFICERS, WATCHES, AUTO ALARM-RA-
DIOTELEGRAPH EQUIPPED SHIPS.
(a) Each cargo ship which in accordance with this part is
equipped with a radiotelegraph station and which is not equipped
with a radiotelegraph auto alarm, and each passenger ship re-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00257 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
258Sec. 354 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
quired by this part to be equipped with a radiotelegraph station,
shall, for safety purposes, carry at least two radio officers.
(b) A cargo ship which in accordance with this part is equipped
with a radiotelegraph station, which is equipped with a radio-
telegraph auto alarm, shall, for safety purposes, carry at least one
radio officer who shall have had at least six months’ previous serv-
ice in the aggregate as a radio officer in a station on board a ship
or ships of the United States.
(c) Each ship of the United States which in accordance with
this part is equipped with a radiotelegraph station shall, while
being navigated in the open sea outside of a harbor or port, keep
a continuous watch by means of radio officers whenever the station
is not being used for authorized traffic: Provided, That, in lieu
thereof, on a cargo ship equipped with a radiotelegraph auto alarm
in proper operating condition, a watch of at least eight hours per
day, in the aggregate, shall be maintained by means of a radio offi-
cer.
(d) The Commission shall, when it finds it necessary for safety
purposes, have authority to prescribe the particular hours of watch
on a ship of the United States which in accordance with this part
is equipped with a radiotelegraph station.
(e) On all ships of United States equipped with a radio-
telegraph auto alarm, said apparatus shall be in operation at all
times while the ship is being navigated in the open sea outside of
a harbor or port when the radio officer is not on watch.
SEC. 354. ø47 U.S.C. 353a¿ OPERATORS, WATCHES—RADIOTELEPHONE
EQUIPPED SHIPS.
(a) Each cargo ship which in accordance with this part is
equipped with a radiotelephone station shall, for safety purposes,
carry at least one operator who may be the master, an officer, or
a member of the crew.
(b) Each cargo ship of the United States which in accordance
with this part is equipped with a radiotelephone station shall,
while being navigated in the open sea outside of a harbor or port,
maintain continuous watch whenever the station is not being used
for authorized traffic.
SEC. 355. ø47 U.S.C. 354¿ TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS—RADIO-
TELEGRAPH EQUIPPED SHIPS.
The radiotelegraph station and the radio direction finding ap-
paratus required by section 351 of this part shall comply with the
following requirements:
(a) The radiotelegraph station shall include a main installation
and a reserve installation, electrically separate and electrically
independent of each other: Provided, That, in installations on cargo
ships of three hundred gross tons and upward but less than one
thousand six hundred gross tons, and in installations on cargo
ships of one thousand six hundred gross tons and upward installed
prior to November 19, 1952, if the main transmitter complies with
all the requirements for the reserve transmitter, the latter may be
omitted.
(b) The radiotelegraph station shall be so located that no harm-
ful interference from extraneous mechanical or other noise will be
caused to the proper reception of radio signals, and shall be placed
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00258 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
259 Sec. 355COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
in the upper part of the ship in a position of the greatest possible
safety and as high as practicable above the deepest load waterline.
The location of the radiotelegraph operating room or rooms shall be
approved by the Commandant of the Coast Guard. The radio-
telegraph installation shall be installed in such a position that it
will be protected against the harmful effects of water or extremes
of temperature, and shall be readily accessible both for immediate
use in case of distress and for repair.
(c) The radiotelegraph operating room shall be of sufficient size
and of adequate ventilation to enable the main and reserve radio-
telegraph installations to be operated efficiently, and shall not be
used for any purpose which will interfere with the operation of the
radiotelegraph station. The sleeping accommodation of at least one
radio officer shall be situated as near as practicable to the radio-
telegraph operating room. In ships the keels of which are laid on
or after May 26, 1965, this sleeping accommodation shall not be
within the radiotelegraph operating room.
(d) The main and reserve installations shall be capable of
transmitting and receiving on the frequencies, and using the class-
es of emission, designated by the Commission pursuant to law for
the purposes of distress and safety of navigation.
(e) The main and reserve installations shall, when connected
to the main antenna, have a minimum normal range of two hun-
dred nautical miles and one hundred nautical miles, respectively;
that is, they must be capable of transmitting and receiving clearly
perceptible signals from ship to ship by day and under normal con-
ditions and circumstances over the specified ranges.
(f) Sufficient electrical energy shall be available at all times to
operate the main installation over the normal range required by
subsection (e) of this section as well as for the purpose of charging
any batteries forming part of the radiotelegraph station.
(g) The reserve installation shall include a source of electrical
energy independent of the propelling power of the ship and of any
other electrical system and shall be capable of being put into oper-
ation rapidly and of working for at least six continuous hours. The
reserve source of energy and its switchboard shall be as high as
practicable in the ship and readily accessible to the radio officer.
(h) There shall be provided between the bridge of the ship and
the radiotelegraph operating room, and between the bridge and the
location of the radio direction finding apparatus, when such appa-
ratus is not located on the bridge, an efficient two-way system for
calling and voice communication which shall be independent of any
other communication system in the ship.
(i) The radio direction finding apparatus shall be efficient and
capable of receiving signals with the minimum of receiver noise
and of taking bearings from which the true bearing and direction
may be determined. It shall be capable of receiving signals on the
radio-telegraph frequencies assigned by the radio regulations an-
nexed to the International Telecommunication Convention in force
for the purpose of distress, direction finding, and maritime radio
beacons, and, in installations made after May 26, 1965, such other
frequencies as the Commission may for safety purposes designate.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00259 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
260Sec. 356 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 356. ø47 U.S.C. 354a¿ TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS—RADIO-
TELEPHONE EQUIPPED SHIPS.
Cargo ships of three hundred gross tons and upward but less
than one thousand six hundred gross tons may, in lieu of the radio-
telegraph station prescribed by section 355, be equipped with a ra-
diotelegraph station complying with the following requirements:
(a) The radiotelephone station shall be in the upper part of the
ship, so located that it is sheltered to the greatest possible extent
from noise which might impair the correct receiption of messages
and signals, and, unless such station is situated on the bridge,
there shall be efficient communication with the bridge.
(b) The radiotelephone installation shall be capable of trans-
mitting and receiving on the frequencies, and using the classes of
emission, designated by the Commission pursuant to law for pur-
poses of distress and safety of navigation.
(c) The radiotelephone installation shall have a minimum nor-
mal range of one hundred and fifty nautical miles; that is, it shall
be capable of transmitting and receiving clearly perceptible signals
from ship to ship by day and under normal conditions and cir-
cumstances over this range.
(d) There shall be available at all times a main source of elec-
trical energy sufficient to operate the installation over the normal
range required by subsection (c) of this section. If batteries are pro-
vided they shall have sufficient capacity to operate the transmitter
and receiver for at least six continuous hours under normal work-
ing conditions. In installations made on or after November 19,
1952, a reserve source of electrical energy shall be provided in the
upper part of the ship unless the main source of energy is so situ-
ated.
SEC. 357. ø47 U.S.C. 355¿ SURVIVAL CRAFT.
Every ship required to be provided with survival craft radio by
treaty to which the United States is a party, by statute, or by regu-
lation made in conformity with a treaty, convention, or statute,
shall be fitted with efficient radio equipment appropriate to such
requirement under such rules and regulations as the Commission
may find necessary for safety of life. For purposes of this section,
‘‘radio equipment’’ shall include portable as well as nonportable ap-
paratus.
SEC. 358. ø47 U.S.C. 356¿ APPROVAL OF INSTALLATIONS.
Insofar as is necessary to carry out the purposes and require-
ments of this part, the Commission shall have authority, for any
ship subject to this part—
(1) To approve the details as to the location and manner
of installations of the equipment required by this part of equip-
ment necessitated by reason of the purposes and requirements
of this part.
(2) To approve installations, apparatus, and spare parts
necessary to comply with the purposes and requirements of
this part.
(3) To prescribe such additional equipment as may be de-
termined to be necessary to supplement that specified herein,
for the proper functioning of the radio installation installed in
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00260 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
261 Sec. 361COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
accordance with this part or for the proper conduct of radio
communication in time of emergency or distress.
SEC. 359. ø47 U.S.C. 357¿ TRANSMISSION OF INFORMATION.
(a) The master of every ship of the United States, equipped
with radio transmitting apparatus, which meets with dangerous
ice, a dangerous derelict, a tropical storm, or any other direct dan-
ger to navigation, or encounters subfreezing air temperatures asso-
ciated with gale force winds causing severe ice accretion on super-
structures, or winds of force 10 or above on the Beaufort scale for
which no storm warning has been received, shall cause to be trans-
mitted all pertinent information relating thereto to ships in the vi-
cinity and to the appropriate authorities on land, in accordance
with rules and regulations issued by the Commission. When they
consider it necessary, such authorities of the United States shall
promptly bring the information received by them to the knowledge
of those concerned, including interested foreign authorities.
(b) No charge shall be made by any ship or station in the mo-
bile service of the United States for the transmission, receipt, or
relay of the information designated in subsection (a) originating on
a ship of the United States or of a foreign country.
(c) The transmission by any ship of the United States, made
in compliance with subsection (a), to any station which imposes a
charge for the reception, relay, or forwarding of the required infor-
mation, shall be free of cost to the ship concerned and any commu-
nication charges incurred by the ship for transmission, relay, or
forwarding of the information may be certified to the Commission
for reimbursement out of moneys appropriated to the Commission
for that purpose.
(d) No charge shall be made by any ship or station in the mo-
bile service of the United States for the transmission of distress
messages and replies thereto in connection with situations involv-
ing the safety of life and property at sea.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any station or
carrier may render free service in connection with situations in-
volving the safety of life and property, including hydrographic re-
ports, weather reports, reports regarding aids to navigation and
medical assistance to injured or sick persons on ships and aircraft
at sea. All free service permitted by this subsection shall be subject
to such rules and regulations as the Commission may prescribe,
which rules may limit such free service to the extent which the
Commission finds desirable in the public interest.
SEC. 360. ø47 U.S.C. 358¿ AUTHORITY OF MASTER.
The radio installation, the operators, the regulation of their
watches, the transmission and receipt of messages, and the radio
service of the ship except as they may be regulated by law or inter-
national agreement, or by rules and regulations made in pursuance
thereof, shall in the case of a ship of the United States be under
the supreme control of the master.
SEC. 361. ø47 U.S.C. 359¿ CERTIFICATES.
(a) Each vessel of the United States to which the Safety Con-
vention applies shall comply with the radio and communication
provisions of said Convention at all times while the vessel is in use,
in addition to all other requirements of law, and shall have on
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00261 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
262Sec. 362 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
board an appropriate certificate as prescribed by the Safety Con-
vention.
(b) Appropriate certificates concerning the radio particulars
provided for in said Convention shall be issued upon proper request
to any vessel which is subject to the radio provisions of the Safety
Convention and is found by the Commission to comply therewith.
Cargo ship safety radio telegraphy certificates, cargo ship safety
radiotelephony certificates, and exemption certificates with respect
to radio particulars shall be issued by the Commission. Other cer-
tificates concerning the radio particulars provided for in the said
Convention shall be issued by the Commandant of the Coast Guard
or whatever other agency is authorized by law to do so upon re-
quest of the Commission made after proper inspection or deter-
mination of the facts. If the holder of a certificate violates the radio
provisions of the Safety Convention or the provisions of this Act,
or the rules, regulations, or conditions prescribed by the Commis-
sion, and if the effective administration of the Safety Convention
or of this part so requires, the Commission, after hearing in accord-
ance with law, is authorized to modify or cancel a certificate which
it has issued, or to request the modification or cancellation of a cer-
tificate which has been issued by another agency upon the Com-
mission’s request. Upon receipt of such request for modification or
cancellation, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, or whatever
agency is authorized by law to do so, shall modify or cancel the cer-
tificate in accordance therewith.
SEC. 362. ø47 U.S.C. 360¿ INSPECTION.
(a) In addition to any other provisions required to be included
in a radio station license, the station license of each ship of the
United States subject to this title shall include particulars with ref-
erence to the items specifically required by this title.
(b) Every ship of the United States that is subject to this part
shall have the equipment and apparatus prescribed therein in-
spected at least once each year by the Commission or an entity des-
ignated by the Commission. If, after such inspection, the Commis-
sion is satisfied that all relevant provisions of this Act and the sta-
tion license have been complied with, the fact shall be so certified
on the station license by the Commission. The Commission shall
make such additional inspections at frequent intervals as the Com-
mission determines may be necessary to ensure compliance with
the requirements of this Act. The Commission may, upon a finding
that the public interest could be served thereby—
(1) waive the annual inspection required under this section
for a period of up to 90 days for the sole purpose of enabling
a vessel to complete its voyage and proceed to a port in the
United States where an inspection can be held; or
(2) waive the annual inspection required under this section
for a vessel that is in compliance with the radio provisions of
the Safety Convention and that is operating solely in waters
beyond the jurisdiction of the United States: Provided, That
such inspection shall be performed within 30 days of such ves-
sel’s return to the United States.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00262 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
263 Sec. 381COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 363. ø47 U.S.C. 361¿ CONTROL BY COMMISSION.
Nothing in this title shall be interpreted as lessening in any
degree the control of the Commission over all matters connected
with the radio equipment and its operation on shipboard and its
decision and determination in regard to the radio requirements, in-
stallations, or exemptions from prescribed radio requirements shall
be final, subject only to review in accordance with law.
SEC. 364. ø47 U.S.C. 362¿ FORFEITURES.
The following forfeitures shall apply to this part, in addition to
the penalties and forfeitures provided by title V of this Act:
(a) Any ship that leaves or attempts to leave any harbor or
port of the United States in violation of the provisions of this part,
or the rules and regulations of the Commission made in pursuance
thereof, or any ship of the United States that is navigated outside
of any harbor or port in violation of any of the provisions of this
part, or the rules and regulations of the Commission made in pur-
suance thereof, shall forfeit to the United States the sum of $5,000,
recoverable by way of suit or libel. Each such departure or at-
tempted departure, and in the case of a ship of the United States
each day during which such navigation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(b) Every willful failure on the part of the master of a ship of
the United States to enforce or to comply with the provisions of
this Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission as to
equipment, operators, watches, or radio service shall cause him to
forfeit to the United States the sum of $1,000.
SEC. 365. ø47 U.S.C. 363¿ AUTOMATED SHIP DISTRESS AND SAFETY SYS-
TEMS.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Act or any other provi-
sion of law or regulation, a ship documented under the laws of the
United States operating in accordance with the Global Maritime
Distress and Safety System provisions of the Safety of Life at Sea
Convention shall not be required to be equipped with a radio teleg-
raphy station operated by one or more radio officers or operators.
This section shall take effect for each vessel upon a determination
by the United States Coast Guard that such vessel has the equip-
ment required to implement the Global Maritime Distress and
Safety System installed and operating in good working condition.
PART III—RADIO INSTALLATIONS ON VESSELS
CARRYING PASSENGERS FOR HIRE
SEC. 381. ø47 U.S.C. 381¿ VESSELS TRANSPORTING MORE THAN SIX
PASSENGERS FOR HIRE REQUIRED TO BE EQUIPPED
WITH RADIO TELEPHONE.
Except as provided in section 382, it shall be unlawful for any
vessel of the United States, transporting more than six passengers
for hire, to be navigated in the open sea or any tidewater within
the jurisdiction of the United States adjacent or contiguous to the
open sea, unless such vessel is equipped with an efficient radio-
telephone installation in operating condition.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00263 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
264Sec. 382 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
43 So in law.
44 So in law. Probably should be followed by ‘‘and’’.
SEC. 382. ø47 U.S.C. 382¿ VESSELS EXCEPTED FROM RADIO TELEPHONE
REQUIREMENT.
The provisions of this part shall not apply to—
(1) vessels which are equipped with a radio installation in
accordance with the provisions of part II of title III of this Act,
or in accordance with the radio requirements of the Safety
Convention; and 43
(2) vessels of the United States belonging to and operated
by the Government, and 43
(3) vessels navigating on the Great Lakes.
SEC. 383. ø47 U.S.C. 383¿ EXEMPTIONS BY COMMISSION.
The Commission shall exempt from the provisions of this part
any vessel, or class of vessels, in the case of which the route or con-
ditions of the voyage, or other conditions or circumstances, are such
as to render a radio installation unreasonable, unnecessary, or inef-
fective, for the purposes of this Act.
SEC. 384. ø47 U.S.C. 384¿ AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION; OPERATIONS,
INSTALLATIONS, AND ADDITIONAL EQUIPMENT.
The Commission shall have authority with respect to any ves-
sel subject to this part—
(1) to specify operating and technical conditions and char-
acteristics including frequencies, emissions, power, communica-
tion capability and range, of installations required by reason of
this part;
(2) to approve the details as to the location and manner of
installation of the equipment required by this part or of equip-
ment necessitated by reason of the purposes and requirements
of this part;
(3) to approve installations, apparatus and spare parts
necessary to comply with the purposes and requirements of
this part; 44
(4) to prescribe such additional equipment as may be de-
termined to be necessary to supplement that specified herein
for the proper functioning of the radio installation installed in
accordance with this part or for the proper conduct of radio
communication in time of emergency or distress.
SEC. 385. ø47 U.S.C. 385¿ INSPECTIONS.
The Commission or an entity designated by the Commission
shall make such inspections as may be necessary to insure compli-
ance with the requirements of this part. In accordance with such
other provisions of law as apply to Government contracts, the Com-
mission may enter into contracts with any person for the purpose
of carrying out such inspections and certifying compliance with
those requirements, and may, as part of any such contract, allow
any such person to accept reimbursement from the license holder
for travel and expense costs of any employee conducting an inspec-
tion or certification.
SEC. 386. ø47 U.S.C. 386¿ FORFEITURES.
The following forfeitures shall apply to this part in addition to
penalties and forfeitures provided by title V of this Act:
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00264 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
265 Sec. 392COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(a) Any vessel of the United States that is navigated in viola-
tion of the provisions of this part or of the rules and regulations
of the Commission made in pursuance thereof shall forfeit to the
United States the sum of $5,000 recoverable by way of suit or libel.
Each day during which such navigation occurs shall constitte a sep-
arate offense.
(b) Every willful failure on the part of the master of a vessel
of the United States to enforce or to comply with the provisions of
this part or the rules and regulations of the Commission made in
pursuance thereof shall cause him to forfeit to the United States
the sum of $1,000.
PART IV—ASSISTANCE FOR PUBLIC TELE-
COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES; TELE-
COMMUNICATIONS DEMONSTRATIONS; COR-
PORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING
Subpart A—Assistance for Public
Telecommunications Facilities
SEC. 390. ø47 U.S.C. 390¿ DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subpart is to assist, through matching
grants, in the planning and construction of public telecommuni-
cations facilities in order to achieve the following objectives: (1) ex-
tend delivery of public telecommunications services to as many citi-
zens of the United States as possible by the most efficient and eco-
nomical means, including the use of broadcast and nonbroadcast
technologies; (2) increase public telecommunications services and
facilities available to, operated by, and owned by minorities and
women; and (3) strengthen the capability of existing public tele-
vision and radio stations to provide public telecommunications
services to the public.
SEC. 391. ø47 U.S.C. 391¿ AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated $42,000,000 for each
of the fiscal years 1992, 1993, and 1994, to be used by the Sec-
retary of Commerce to assist in the planning and construction of
public telecommunications facilities as provided in this subpart.
Sums appropriated under this subpart for any fiscal year shall re-
main available until expended for payment of grants for projects
for which applications approved by the Secretary pursuant to this
subpart have been submitted within such fiscal year. Sums appro-
priated under this subpart may be used by the Secretary to cover
the cost of administering the provisions of this subpart.
SEC. 392. ø47 U.S.C. 392¿ GRANTS FOR CONSTRUCTION AND PLANNING.
(a) For each project for the construction of public telecommuni-
cations facilities there shall be submitted to the Secretary an appli-
cation for a grant containing such information with respect to such
project as the Secretary may require, including the total cost of
such project, the amount of the grant requested for such project,
and a 5-year plan outlining the applicant’s projected facilities re-
quirements and the projected costs of such facilities requirements.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00265 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
266Sec. 392 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Each applicant shall also provide assurances satisfactory to the
Secretary that—
(1) the applicant is (A) a public broadcast station; (B) a
noncommercial telecommunications entity; (C) a system of pub-
lic telecommunications entities; (D) a nonprofit foundation, cor-
poration, institution, or association organized primarily for
educational or cultural purposes; or (E) a State or local govern-
ment (or any agency thereof), or a political or special purpose
subdivision of a State;
(2) the operation of such public telecommunication facili-
ties will be under the control of the applicant;
(3) necessary funds to construct, operate, and maintain
such public telecommunications facilities will be available
when needed;
(4) such public telecommunications facilities will be used
primarily for the provision of public telecommunications serv-
ices and that the use of such public telecommunications facili-
ties for purposes other than the provision of public tele-
communications services will not interfere with the provision of
such public telecommunications services as required in this
part;
(5) the applicant has participated in comprehensive plan-
ning for such public telecommunications facilities in the area
which the applicant proposes to serve, and such planning has
included an evaluation of alternate technologies and coordina-
tion with State educational television and radio agencies, as
appropriate; and
(6) the applicant will make the most efficient use of the
grant.
(b) Upon approving any application under this section with re-
spect to any project for the construction of public telecommuni-
cations facilities, the Secretary shall make a grant to the applicant
in an amount determined by the Secretary, except that such
amounts shall not exceed 75 percent of the amount determined by
the Secretary to be the reasonable and necessary cost of such
project.
(c) The Secretary may provide such funds as the Secretary
deems necessary for the planning of any project for which construc-
tion funds may be obtained under this section. An applicant for a
planning grant shall provide such information with respect to such
project as the Secretary may require and shall provide assurances
satisfactory to the Secretary that the applicant meets the eligible
requirements of subsection (a) to receive construction assistance.
(d) Any studies conducted by or for any grant recipient under
this section shall be provided to the Secretary, if such studies are
conducted through the use of funds received under this section.
(e) The Secretary shall establish such rules and regulations as
may be necessary to carry out this subpart, including rules and
regulations relating to the order of priority in approving applica-
tions for construction projects and relating to determining the
amount of each grant for such projects.
(f) In establishing criteria for grants pursuant to section 393
and in establishing procedures relating to the order of priority es-
tablished in subsection (e) in approving applications for grants, the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00266 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
267 Sec. 393COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Secretary shall give special consideration to applications which
would increase minority and women’s ownership of, operation of,
and participation in public telecommunications entities. The Sec-
retary shall take affirmative steps to inform minorities and women
of the availability of funds under this subpart, and the localities
where new public telecommunications facilities are needed, and to
provide such other assistance and information as may be appro-
priate.
(g) If, within 10 years after completion of any project for
construcion of public telecommunications facilities with respect to
which a grant has been made under this section—
(1) the applicant or other owner of such facilities ceases to
be an agency, institution, foundation, corporation, association,
or other entity described in subsection (a)(1); or
(2) such facilities cease to be used primarily for the provi-
sion of public telecommunications services (or the use of such
public telecommunications facilities for purposes other than
the provision of public telecommunications services interferes
with the provision of such public telecommunications services
as required in this part);
the United States shall be entitled to recover from the applicant or
other owner of such facilities the amount bearing the same ratio
to the value of such facilities at the time the applicant ceases to
be such an entity or at the time of such determination (as deter-
mined by agreement of the parties or by action brought in the
United States district court for the district in which such facilities
are situated), as the amount of the Federal participation bore to
the cost of construction of such facilities.
(h) Each recipient of assistance under this subpart shall keep
such records as may be reasonably necessary to enable the Sec-
retary to carry out the functions of the Secretary under this sub-
part, including a complete and itemized inventory of all public tele-
communications facilities under the control of such recipient, and
records which fully disclose the amount and the disposition by such
recipient of the proceeds of such assistance, the total cost of the
project in connection with which such assistance is given or used,
the amount and nature of that portion of the cost of the project
supplied by other sources, and such other records as will facilitate
an effective audit.
(i) The Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United
States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have
access for the purpose of audit and examination to any books, docu-
ments, papers, and records of any recipient of assistance under this
subpart that are pertinent to assistance received under this sub-
part.
SEC. 393. ø47 U.S.C. 393¿ CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL AND EXPENDI-
TURES BY SECRETARY OF COMMERCE.
(a) The Secretary, in consultation with the Corporation, public
telecommunications entities, and as appropriate with others, shall
estblish criteria for making construction and planning grants. Such
criteria shall be consistent with the objectives and provisions set
forth in this subpart, and shall be made available to interested par-
ties upon request.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00267 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
268Sec. 393A COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
45 Section 1021(a) of Public Law 104–66 (109 Stat. 712) repealed subsection (b), but did not
amend subsection (a).
(b) The Secretary shall base determinations of whether to ap-
prove applications for grants under this subpart, and the amount
of such grants, on criteria developed pursuant to subsection (a) and
designed to achieve—
(1) the provision of new telecommunications facilities to ex-
tend service to areas currently not receiving public tele-
communications services;
(2) the expansion of the service areas of existing public
telecommunications entities;
(3) the development of public telecommunications facilities
owned by, operated by, and available to minorities and women;
and
(4) the improvement of the capabilities of existing public
broadcast stations to provide public telecommunications serv-
ices, including services to underserved audiences such as deaf
and hearing impaired individuals and blind and visually im-
paired individuals.
(c) Of the sums appropriated pursuant to section 391 for any
fiscal year, a substantial amount shall be available for the expan-
sion and development of noncommercial radio broadcast station fa-
cilities.
SEC. 393A. ø47 U.S.C. 393a¿ LONG-RANGE PLANNING FOR FACILITIES.
(a) 45 The Secretary, in consultation with the Corporation, pub-
lic telecommunications entities, and as appropriate with other par-
ties, shall develop a long-range plan to accomplish the objectives
set forth in section 390. Such plan shall include a detailed 5-year
projection of the broadcast and nonbroadcast public telecommuni-
cations facilities required to meet such objectives, and the expendi-
tures necessary to provide such facilities.
Subpart B—National Endowment for Children’s
Educational Television
SEC. 394. ø47 U.S.C. 394¿ ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL ENDOWMENT.
(a) It is the purpose of this section to enhance the education
of children through the creation and production of television pro-
gramming specifically directed toward the development of funda-
mental intellectual skills.
(b)(1) There is established, under the direction of the Sec-
retary, a National Endowment for Children’s Educational Tele-
vision. In administering the National Endowment, the Secretary is
authorized to—
(A) contract with the Corporation for the production of
educational television programming for children; and
(B) make grants directly to persons proposing to create
and produce educational television programming for children.
The Secretary shall consult with the Advisory Council on Chil-
dren’s Educational Television in the making of the grants or the
awarding of contracts for the purpose of making the grants.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00268 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
269 Sec. 394COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) Contracts and grants under this section shall be made on
the condition that the programming shall—
(A) during the first two years after its production, be made
available only to public television licensees and permittees and
noncommercial television licensees and permittees; and
(B) thereafter be made available to any commercial tele-
vision licensee or permittee or cable television system operator,
at a charge established by the Secretary that will assure the
maximum practicable distribution of such programming, so
long as such licensee, permittee, or operator does not interrupt
the programming with commercial advertisements.
The Secretary may, consistent with the purpose and provisions of
this section, permit the programming to be distributed to persons
using other media, establish conditions relating to such distribu-
tion, and apply those conditions to any contract or grant made
under this section. The Secretary may waive the requirements of
subparagraph (A) if the Secretary finds that neither public tele-
vision licensees and permittees nor noncommercial television li-
censees and permittees will have an opportunity to air such pro-
gramming in the first two years after its production.
(c)(1) The Secretary, with the advice of the Advisory Council on
Children’s Educational Television, shall establish criteria for mak-
ing contracts and grants under this section. Such criteria shall be
consistent with the purpose and provisions of this section and shall
be made available to interested parties upon request. Such criteria
shall include—
(A) criteria to maximize the amount of programming that
is produced with the funds made available by the Endowment;
(B) criteria to minimize the costs of—
(i) selection of grantees,
(ii) administering the contracts and grants, and
(iii) the administrative costs of the programming pro-
duction; and
(C) criteria to otherwise maximize the proportion of funds
made available by the Endowment that are expended for the
cost of programming production.
(2) Applications for grants under this section shall be sub-
mitted to the Secretary in such form and containing such informa-
tion as the Secretary shall require by regulation.
(d) Upon approving any application for a grant under sub-
section (b)(1)(B), the Secretary shall make a grant to the applicant
in an amount determined by the Secretary, except that such
amounts shall not exceed 75 percent of the amount determined by
the Secretary to be the reasonable and necessary cost of the project
for which the grant is made.
(e)(1) The Secretary shall establish an Advisory Council on
Children’s Educational Television. The Secretary shall appoint ten
individuals as members of the Council and designate one of such
members to serve as Chairman.
(2) Members of the Council shall have terms of two years, and
no member shall serve for more than three consecutive terms. The
members shall have expertise in the fields of education, psychology,
child development, or television programming, or related dis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00269 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
270Sec. 395 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ciplines. Officers and employees of the United States shall not be
appointed as members.
(3) While away from their homes or regular places of business
in the performance of duties for the Council, the members of the
Council shall serve without compensation but shall be allowed
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in ac-
cordance with section 5703 of title 5, United States Code.
(4) The Council shall meet at the call of the Chairman and
shall advise the Secretary concerning the making of contracts and
grants under this section.
(f)(1) Each recipient of a grant under this section shall keep
such records as may be reasonably necessary to enable the Sec-
retary to carry out the Secretary’s functions under this section, in-
cluding records which fully disclose the amount and the disposition
by such recipient of the proceeds of such grant, the total cost of the
project, the amount and nature of that portion of the cost of the
project supplied by other sources, and such other records as will fa-
cilitate an effective audit.
(2) The Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United
States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have
access for the purposes of audit and examination to any books, doc-
uments, papers, and records of the recipient that are pertinent to
a grant received under this section.
(g) The Secretary is authorized to make such rules and regula-
tions as may be necessary to carry out this section, including those
relating to the order of priority in approving applications for
projects under this section or to determining the amounts of con-
tracts and grants for such projects.
(h) There are authorized to be appropriated $2,000,000 for fis-
cal year 1991, $4,000,000 for fiscal year 1992, $5,000,000 for fiscal
year 1993, and $6,000,000 for fiscal year 1994 to be used by the
Secretary to carry out the provisions of this section. Sums appro-
priated under this subsection for any fiscal year shall remain avail-
able for contracts and grants for projects for which applications ap-
proved under this section have been submitted wtihin one year
after the last day of such fiscal year.
(i) For purposes of this section—
(1) the term ‘‘educational television programming for chil-
dren’’ means any television program which is directed to an au-
dience of children who are 16 years of age or younger and
which is designed for the intellectual development of those
children, except that such term does not include any television
program which is directed to a general audience but which
might also be viewed by a significant number of children; and
(2) the term ‘‘person’’ means an individual, partnership, as-
sociation, joint stock company, trust, corporation, or State or
local governmental entity.
Subpart C—Telecommunications Demonstrations
SEC. 395. ø47 U.S.C. 395¿ ASSISTANCE FOR DEMONSTRATION
PROJECTS.
(a) It is the purpose of this subpart to promote the develop-
ment of nonbroadcast telecommunications facilities and services for
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00270 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
271 Sec. 395COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the transmission, distribution, and delivery of health, education,
and public or social service information. The Secretary is author-
ized, upon receipt of an application in such form and containing
such information as he may by regulation require, to make grants
to, and enter into contracts with, public and private nonprofit agen-
cies, organizations, and institutions for the purpose of carrying out
telecommunications demonstrations.
(b) The Secretary may approve an application submitted under
subsection (a) if he determines that—
(1) the project for which application is made will dem-
onstrate innovative methods or techniques of utilizing non-
broadcast telecommunications equipment or facilities to satisfy
the purpose of this subpart;
(2) demonstrations and related activities assisted under
this subpart will remain under the administration and control
of the applicant;
(3) the applicant has the managerial and technical capa-
bility to carry out the project for which the application is made;
and (4) the facilities and equipment acquired or developed pur-
suant to the application will be used substantially for the
transmission, distribution, and delivery of health, education, or
public or social service information.
(c) Upon approving any application under this subpart with re-
spect to any project, the Secretary shall make a grant to or enter
into a contract with the applicant in an amount determined by the
Secretary not to exceed the reasonable and necessary cost of such
project. The Secretary shall pay such amount from the sums avail-
able therefor, in advance or by way of reimbursement, and in such
installments consistent with established practice, as he may deter-
mine.
(d) Funds made available pursuant to this subpart shall not be
available for the construction, remodeling, or repair of structures to
house the facilities or equipment acquired or developed with such
funds, except that such funds may be used for minor remodeling
which is necessary for and incidental to the installation of such fa-
cilities or equipment.
(e) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘nonbroadcast tele-
communications facilities’’ includes, but is not limited to, cable tele-
vision systems, communications satellite systems and related ter-
minal equipment, and other modes of transmitting, emitting, or re-
ceiving images and sounds or intelligence by means of wire, radio,
optical, electromagnetic or other means.
(f) The funding of any demonstration pursuant to this subpart
shall continue for not more than 3 years from the date of the origi-
nal grant or contract.
(g) The Secretary shall require that the recipient of a grant or
contract under this subpart submit a summary and evaluation of
the results of the demonstration at least annually for each year in
which funds are received pursuant to this section.
(h)(1) Each recipient of assistance under this subpart shall
keep such records as may be reasonably necessary to enable the
Secretary to carry out the Secretary’s functions under this subpart,
including records which fully disclose the amount and the disposi-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00271 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
272Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tion by such recipient of the proceeds of such assistance, the total
cost of the project or undertaking in connection with which such as-
sistance is given or used, the amount and nature of that portion
of the cost of the project or undertaking supplied by other sources,
and such other records as will facilitate an effective audit.
(2) The Secretary and the Comptroller General of the United
States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, shall have
access for the purposes of audit and examination to any books, doc-
uments, papers, and records of the recipient that are pertinent to
assistance received under this subpart.
(i) The Secretary is authorized to make such rules and regula-
tions as may be necessary to carry out this subpart, including regu-
lations relating to the order of priority in approving applications for
projects under this subpart or to determining the amounts of
grants for such projects.
(j) The Commission is authorized to provide such assistance in
carrying out the provisions of this subpart as may be requested by
the Secretary. The Secretary shall provide for close coordination
with the Commission in the administration of the Secretary’s func-
tions under this subpart which are of interest to or affect the func-
tions of the Commission. The Secretary shall provide for close co-
ordination with the Corporation in the administration of the Sec-
retary’s functions udner this subpart which are of interest to or af-
fect the functions of the Corporation.
(k) There are authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for each
of the fiscal years 1979, 1980, and 1981, to be used by the Sec-
retary to carry out the provisions of this subpart. Sums appro-
priated under this subsection for any fiscal year shall remain avail-
able for payment of grants or contracts for projects for which appli-
cations approved under this subpart have been submitted within
one year after the last day of such fiscal year.
Subpart D—Corporation for Public Broadcasting
SEC. 396. ø47 U.S.C. 396¿ DECLARATION OF POLICY.
(a) The Congress hereby finds and declares that—
(1) it is in the public interest to encourage the growth and
development of public radio and television broadcasting, in-
cluding the use of such media for instructional, educational,
and cultural purposes;
(2) it is in the public interest to encourage the growth and
development of nonbroadcast telecommunications technologies
for the delivery of public telecommunications services;
(3) expansion and development of public telecommuni-
cations and of diversity of its programming depend on freedom,
imagination, and initiative on both local and national levels;
(4) the encouragement and support of public telecommuni-
cations, while matters of importance for private and local de-
velopment, are also of appropriate and important concern to
the Federal Government;
(5) it furthers the general welfare to encourage public tele-
communications services which will be responsive to the inter-
ests of people both in particular localities and throughout the
United States, which will constitute an expression of diversity
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00272 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
273 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
and excellence, and which will constitute a source of alter-
native telecommunications services for all the citizens of the
Nation;
(6) it is in the public interest to encourage the develop-
ment of programming that involves creative risks and that ad-
dresses the needs of unserved and underserved audiences, par-
ticularly children and minorities;
(7) it is necessary and appropriate for the Federal Govern-
ment to complement, assist, and support a national policy that
will most effectively make public telecommunications services
available to all citizens of the United States;
(8) public television and radio stations and public tele-
communications services constitute valuable local community
resources for utilizing electronic media to address national con-
cerns and solve local problems through community programs
and outreach programs;
(9) it is in the public interest for the Federal Government
to ensure that all citizens of the United States have access to
public telecommunications services through all appropriate
available telecommunications distribution technologies; and
(10) a private corporation should be created to facilitate
the development of public telecommunications and to afford
maximum protection from extraneous interference and control.
Corporation Established
(b) There is authorized to be established a nonprofit corpora-
tion, to be known as the ‘‘Corporation for Public Broadcasting’’,
which will not be an agency or establishment of the United States
Government. The Corporation shall be subject to the provisions of
this section, and, to the extent consistent with this section, to the
District of Columbia Nonprofit Corporation Act.
Board of Directors
(c)(1) The Corporation for Public Broadcasting shall have a
Board of Directors (hereinafter in this section referred to as the
‘‘Board’’), consisting of 9 members appointed by the President, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate. No more than 5
members of the Board appointed by the President may be members
of the same political party.
(2) The 9 members of the Board appointed by the President (A)
shall be selected from among citizens of the United States (not reg-
ular full-time employees of the United States) who are eminent in
such fields as education, cultural and civic affairs, or the arts, in-
cluding radio and television; and (B) shall be selected so as to pro-
vide as nearly as practicable a broad representation of various re-
gions of the Nation, various professions and occupations, and var-
ious kinds of talent and experience appropriate to the functions
and responsibilities of the Corporation.
(3) Of the members of the Board appointed by the President
under paragraph (1), one member shall be selected from among in-
dividuals who represent the licensees and permittees of public tele-
vision stations, and one member shall be selected from among indi-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00273 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
274Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
viduals who represent the licensees and permittees of public radio
stations.
(4) The members of the initial Board of Directors shall serve
as incorporators and shall take whatever actions are necessary to
establish the Corporation under the District of Columbia Nonprofit
Corporation Act.
(5) The term of office of each member of the Board appointed
by the President shall be 6 years, except as provided in section 5(c)
of the Public Telecommunications Act of 1992. Any member whose
term has expired may serve until such member’s successor has
taken office, or until the end of the calendar year in which such
member’s term has expired, whichever is earlier. Any member ap-
pointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expiration of the
term for which such member’s predecessor was appointed shall be
appointed for the remainder of such term. No member of the Board
shall be eligible to serve in excess of 2 consecutive full terms.
(6) Any vacancy in the Board shall not affect its power, but
shall be filled in the manner consistent with this Act.
(7) Members of the Board shall attend not less than 50 percent
of all duly convened meetings of the Board in any calendar year.
A member who fails to meet the requirement of the preceding sen-
tence shall forfeit membership and the President shall appoint a
new member to fill such vacancy not later then 30 days after such
vacancy is determined by the Chairman of the Board.
Election of Chairman and Vice Chairman; Compensation
(d)(1) Members of the Board shall annually elect one of their
members to be Chairman and elect one or more of their members
as a Vice Chairman or Vice Chairmen.
(2) The members of the Board shall not, by reason of such
membership, be deemed to be officers or employees of the United
States. They shall, while attending meetings of the Board or while
engaged in duties related to such meetings or other activities of the
Board pursuant to this subpart, be entitled to receive compensation
at the rate of $150 per day, including traveltime. No Board mem-
ber shall receive compensation of more than $10,000 in any fiscal
year. While away from their homes or regular places of business,
Board members shall be allowed travel and actual, reasonable, and
necessary expenses.
Officers and Employees
(e)(1) The Corporation shall have a President, and such other
officers as may be named and appointed by the Board for terms
and at rates of compensation fixed by the Board. No officer or em-
ployee of the Corporation may be compensated by the Corporation
at an annual rate of pay which exceeds the rate of basic pay in ef-
fect from time to time for level I of the Executive Schedule under
section 5312 of title 5, United States Code. No individual other
than a citizen of the United States may be an officer of the Cor-
poration. No officer of the Corporation, other than the Chairman or
a Vice Chairman, may receive any salary or other compensation
(except for compensation for services on boards of directors of other
organizations that do not receive funds from the Corporation, on
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00274 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
275 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
committees of such boards, and in similar activities for such organi-
zations) from any sources other than the Corporation for services
rendered during the period of his or her employment by the Cor-
poration. Service by any officer on boards of directors of other orga-
nizations, on committees of such boards, and in similar activities
for such organizations shall be subject to annual advance approval
by the Board and subject to the provisions of the Corporation’s
Statement of Ethical Conduct. All officers shall serve at the pleas-
ure of the Board.
(2) Except as provided in the second sentence of subsection
(c)(1) of this section, no political test or qualification shall be used
in selecting, appointing, promoting, or taking other personnel ac-
tions with respect to officers, agents, and employees of the Corpora-
tion.
Nonprofit and Nonpolitical Nature of the Corporation
(f)(1) The Corporation shall have no power to issue any shares
of stock, or to declare or pay any dividends.
(2) No part of the income or assets of the Corporation shall
inure to the benefit of any director, officer, employee, or any other
individual except as salary or reasonable compensation for services.
(3) The Corporation may not contribute to or otherwise support
any political party or candidate for elective public office.
Purposes and Activities of Corporation
(g)(1) In order to achieve the objectives and to carry out the
purposes of this subpart, as set out in subsection (a), the Corpora-
tion is authorized to—
(A) facilitate the full development of public telecommuni-
cations in which programs of high quality, diversity, creativity,
excellence, and innovation, which are obtained from diverse
sources, will be made available to public telecommunications
entities, with strict adherence to objectivity and balance in all
programs or series of programs of a controversial nature;
(B) assist in the establishment and development of one or
more interconnection systems to be used for the distribution of
public telecommunications services so that all public tele-
communications entities may disseminate such services at
times chosen by the entities;
(C) assist in the establishment and development of one or
more systems of public telecommunications entities throughout
the United States; and
(D) carry out its purposes and functions and engage in its
activities in ways that will most effectively assure the max-
imum freedom of the public telecommunications entities and
systems from interference with, or control of, program content
or other activities.
(2) In order to carry out the purposes set forth in subsection
(a), the Corporation is authorized to—
(A) obtain grants from and make contracts with individ-
uals and with private, State, and Federal agencies, organiza-
tions, and institutions;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00275 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
276Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) contract with or make grants to public telecommuni-
cations entities, national, regional, and other systems of public
telecommunications entities, and independent producers and
production entities, for the production or acquisition of public
telecommunications services to be made available for use by
public telecommunications entities, except that—
(i) to the extent practicable, proposals for the provision
of assistance by the Corporation in the production or ac-
quisition of programs or series of programs shall be evalu-
ated on the basis of comparative merit by panels of outside
experts, representing diverse interests and perspectives,
appointed by the Corporation; and
(ii) nothing in this subparagraph shall be construed to
prohibit the exercise by the Corporation of its prudent
business judgement with respect to any grant to assist in
the production or acquisition of any program or series of
programs recommended by any such panel;
(C) make payments to existing and new public tele-
communications entities to aid in financing the production or
acquisition of public telecommunications services by such enti-
ties, particularly innovative approaches to such services, and
other costs of operation of such entities;
(D) establish and maintain, or contribute to, a library and
archives of noncommercial educational and cultural radio and
television programs and related materials and develop public
awareness of, and disseminate information about, public tele-
communications services by various means, including the pub-
lication of a journal;
(E) arrange, by grant to or contract with appropriate pub-
lic or private agencies, organizations, or institutions, for inter-
connection facilities suitable for distribution and transmission
of public telecommunications services to public telecommuni-
cations entities;
(F) hire or accept the voluntary services of consultants, ex-
perts, advisory boards, and panels to aid the Corporation in
carrying out the purposes of this subpart;
(G) conduct (directly or through grants or contracts) re-
search, demonstrations, or training in matters related to public
television or radio broadcasting and the use of nonbroadcast
communications technologies for the dissemination of non-
commercial educational and cultural television or radio pro-
grams;
(H) make grants or contracts for the use of nonbroadcast
telecommunications technologies for the dissemination to the
public of public telecommunications services; and
(I) take such other actions as may be necessary to accom-
plish the purposes set forth in subsection (a).
Nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to commit
the Federal Government to provide any sums for the payment of
any obligation of the Corporation which exceeds amounts provided
in advance in appropriation Acts.
(3) To carry out the foregoing purposes and engage in the fore-
going activities, the Corporation shall have the usual powers con-
ferred upon a nonprofit corporation by the District of Columbia
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00276 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
277 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Nonprofit Corporation Act (D.C. Code, sec. 29–1001 et seq.), except
that the Corporation is prohibited from—
(A) owning or operating any television or radio broadcast
station, system, or network, community antenna television sys-
tem, interconnection system or facility, program production fa-
cility, or any public telecommunications entity, system, or net-
work; and
(B) producing programs, scheduling programs for dissemi-
nation, or disseminating programs to the public.
(4) All meetings of the Board of Directors of the Corporation,
including any committee of the Board, shall be open to the public
under such terms, conditions, and exceptions as are set forth in
subsection (k)(4).
(5) The Corporation, in consultation with interested parties,
shall create a 5-year plan for the development of public tele-
communications services. Such plan shall be updated annually by
the Corporation.
Interconnection Service
(h)(1) Nothing in this Act, or in any other provision of law,
shall be construed to prevent United States communications com-
mon carriers from rendering free or reduced rate communications
interconnection services for public television or radio services, sub-
ject to such rules and regulations as the Commission may pre-
scribe.
(2) Subject to such terms and conditions as may be established
by public telecommunications entities receiving space satellite
interconnection facilities or services purchased or arranged for, in
whole or in part, with funds authorized under this part, other pub-
lic telecommunications entities shall have reasonable access to such
facilities or services for the distribution of educational and cultural
programs to public telecommunications entities. Any remaining ca-
pacity shall be made available to other persons for the trans-
mission of noncommercial educational and cultural programs and
program information relating to such programs, to public tele-
communications entities, at a charge or charges comparable to the
charge or charges, if any, imposed upon a public
telecommunciations entity for the distribution of noncommercial
educational and cultural programs to public telecommunications
entities. No such person shall be denied such access whenever suf-
ficient capacity is available.
øSubsection (i) was repealed by section 402(i)(8)(A) of division
P of Public Law 115–141.¿
Right to Repeal, Alter, or Amend
(j) The right to repeal, alter, or amend this section at any time
is expressly reserved.
Financing; Open Meetings and Financial Records
(k)(1)(A) There is hereby established in the Treasury a fund
which shall be known as the Public Broadcasting Fund (hereinafter
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00277 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
278Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
46 Margin so in law.
in this subsection referred to as the ‘‘Fund’’), to be administered by
the Secretary of the Treasury.
(B) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Fund, for
each of the fiscal years 1978, 1979 and 1980, an amount equal to
40 percent of the total amount of non-Federal financial support re-
ceived by public broadcasting entities during the fiscal year second
preceding each such fiscal year, except that the amount so appro-
priated shall not exceed $121,000,000 for fiscal year 1978,
$140,000,000 for fiscal year 1979, and $160,000,000 for fiscal year
1980.
(C) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Fund, for
each of the fiscal years 1981, 1982, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986, 1987,
1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, and 1993, an amount equal to 40
percent of the total amount of non-Federal financial support re-
ceived by public broadcasting entities during the fiscal year second
preceding each such fiscal year, except that the amount so appro-
priated shall not exceed $265,000,000 for fiscal year 1992,
$285,000,000 for fiscal year 1993, $310,000,000 for fiscal year 1994,
$375,000,000 for fiscal year 1995, and $425,000,000 for fiscal year
1996. (D) 46 In addition to any amounts authorized under
any other provision of this or any other Act to be appro-
priated to the Fund, $20,000,000 are hereby authorized to
be appropriated to the Fund (notwithstanding any other
provision of this subsection) specifically for transition from
the use of analog to digital technology for the provision of
public broadcasting services for fiscal year 2001.
(E) Funds appropriated under this subsection shall remain
available until expended.
(2)(A) The funds authorized to be appropriated by this sub-
section shall be used by the Corporation, in a prudent and finan-
cially responsible manner, solely for its grants, contracts, and ad-
ministrative costs, except that the Corporation may not use any
funds appropriated under this subpart for purposes of conducting
any reception, or providing any other entertainment, for any officer
or employee of the Federal Government or any State or local gov-
ernment. The Corporation shall determine the amount of non-Fed-
eral financial support received by public broadcasting entities dur-
ing each of the fiscal years referred to in paragraph (1) for the pur-
pose of determining the amount of each authorization, and shall
certify such amount to the Secretary of the Treasury, except that
the Corporation may include in its certification non-Federal finan-
cial support received by a public broadcasting entity during its
most recent fiscal year ending before September 30 of the year for
which certification is made. Upon receipt of such certification, the
Secretary of the Treasury shall make available to the Corporation,
from such funds as may be appropriated to the Fund, the amount
authorized for each of the fiscal years pursuant to the provisions
of this subsection.
(B) Funds appropriated and made available under this sub-
section shall be disbursed by the Secretary of the Treasury on a fis-
cal year basis.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00278 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
279 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(3)(A)(i) The Corporation shall establish an annual budget for
use in allocating amounts from the Fund. Of the amounts appro-
priated into the Fund available for allocation for any fiscal year—
(I) $10,200,000 shall be available for the administrative ex-
penses of the Corporation for fiscal year 1989, and for each
succeeding fiscal year the amount which shall be available for
such administrative expenses shall be the sum of the amount
made available to the Corporation under this subclause for
such expenses in the preceding fiscal year plus the greater of
4 percent of such amount or a percentage of such amount equal
to the percentage change in the Consumer Price Index, except
that none of the amounts allocated under subclauses (II), (III),
and (IV) and clause (v) shall be used for any administrative ex-
penses of the Corporation and not more than 5 percent of all
the amounts appropriated into the Fund available for alloca-
tion for any fiscal year shall be available for such administra-
tive expenses;
(II) 6 percent of such amounts shall be available for ex-
penses incurred by the Corporation for capital costs relating to
telecommunications satellites, the payment of programming
royalties and other fees, the costs of interconnection facilities
and operations (as provided in clause (iv)(I)), and grants which
the Corporation may make for assistance to stations that
broadcast programs in languages other than English or for as-
sistance in the provision of affordable training programs for
employees at public broadcast stations, and if the available
funding level permits, for projects and activities that will en-
hance public broadcasting;
(III) 75 percent of the remainder (after allocations are
made under subclause (I) and subclause (II)) shall be allocated
in accordance with clause (ii);
(IV) 25 percent of such remainder shall be allocated in ac-
cordance with clause (iii).
(ii) Of the amounts allocated under clause (i)(III) for any fiscal
year— (I) 75 percent of such amounts shall be available for dis-
tribution among the licensees and permittees of public tele-
vision stations pursuant to paragraph (6)(B); and
(II) 25 percent of such amounts shall be available for dis-
tribution under subparagraph (B)(i), and in accordance with
any plan implemented under paragraph (6)(A), for national
public television programming.
(iii) Of the amounts allocated under clause (i)(IV) for any fiscal
year— (I) 70 percent of such amounts shall be available for dis-
tribution among the licensees and permittees of public radio
stations pursuant to paragraph (6)(B);
(II) 7 percent of such amounts shall be available for dis-
tribution under subparagraph (B)(i) for public radio program-
ming; and
(III) 23 percent of such amounts shall be available for dis-
tribution among the licensees and permittees of public radio
stations pursuant to paragraph (6)(B), solely to be used for ac-
quiring or producing programming that is to be distributed na-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00279 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
280Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tionally and is designed to serve the needs of a national audi-
ence.
(iv)(I) From the amount provided pursuant to clause (i)(II), the
Corporation shall defray an amount equal to 50 percent of the total
costs of interconnection facilities and operations to facilitate the
availability of public television and radio programs among public
broadcasts stations.
(II) Of the amounts received as the result of any contract, lease
agreement, or any other arrangement under which the Corporation
directly or indirectly makes available interconnection facilities, 50
percent of such amounts shall be distributed to the licensees and
permittees of public television stations and public radio stations.
The Corporation shall not have any authority to establish any re-
quirements, guidelines, or limitations with respect to the use of
such amounts by such licensees and permittees.
(v) Of the interest on the amounts appropriated into the Fund
which is available for allocation for any fiscal year—
(I) 75 percent shall be available for distribution for the
purposes referred to in clause (ii)(II); and
(II) 25 percent shall be available for distribution for the
purposes referred to in clause (iii)(II) and (III).
(B)(i) The Corporation shall utilize the funds allocated pursu-
ant to subparagraph (A)(ii)(II) and subparagraph (A)(iii)(II) to
make grants for production of public television or radio programs
by independent producers and production entities and public tele-
communications entities, producers of national children’s edu-
cational programming, and producers of programs addressing the
needs and interest of minorities, and for acquisition of such pro-
grams by public telecommunications entities. The Corporation may
make grants to public telecommunications entities and producers
for the production of programs in languages other than English. Of
the funds utilized pursuant to this clause, a substantial amount
shall be distributed to independent producers and production enti-
ties, producers of national children’s educational programming, and
producers of programming addressing the needs and interests of
minorities for the production of programs.
(ii) All funds available for distribution under clause (i) shall be
distributed to entities outside the Corporation and shall not be
used for the general administrative costs of the Corporation, the
salaries or related expenses of Corporation personnel and members
of the Board, or for expenses of consultants and advisers to the
Corporation.
(iii)(I) For fiscal year 1990 and succeeding fiscal years, the Cor-
poration shall, in carrying out its obligations under clause (i) with
respect to public television programming, provide adequate funds
for an independent production service.
(II) Such independent production service shall be separate
from the Corporation and shall be incorporated under the laws of
the District of Columbia for the purpose of contracting with the
Corporation for the expenditure of funds for the production of pub-
lic television programs by independent producers and independent
production entities.
(III) The Corporation shall work with organizations or associa-
tions of independent producers or independent production entities
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00280 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
281 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
47 So in law. Probably should be (l)(3)(B).
to develop a plan and budget for the operation of such service that
is acceptable to the Corporation.
(IV) The Corporation shall ensure that the funds provided to
such independent production service shall be used exclusively in
pursuit of the Corporation’s obligation to expand the diversity and
innovativeness of programming available to public broadcasting.
øSubclause (V) was repealed by section 402(i)(8)(B)(ii) of divi-
sion P of Public Law 115–141¿
(VI) The Corporation shall not contract to provide funds to any
such independent production service, unless that service agrees to
comply with public inspection requirements established by the Cor-
poration within 3 months after the date of enactment of this sub-
clause. Under such requirements the service shall maintain at its
offices a public file, updated regularly, containing information re-
lating to the service’s award of funds for the production of program-
ming. The information shall be available for public inspection and
copying for at least 3 years and shall be of the same kind as the
information required to be maintained by the Corporation under
subsection (l)(4)(B).
(4) Funds may not be distributed pursuant to this subsection
to the Public Broadcasting Service or National Public Radio (or any
successor organization), or to the licensee or permittee of any pub-
lic broadcast station, unless the governing body of any such organi-
zation, any committee of such governing body, or any advisory body
of any such organization, holds open meetings preceded by reason-
able notice to the public. All persons shall be permitted to attend
any meeting of the board, or of any such committee or body, and
no person shall be required, as a condition to attendance at any
such meeting, to register such person’s name or to provide any
other information. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall be
construed to prevent any such board, committee, or body from hold-
ing closed sessions to consider matters relating to individual em-
ployees, proprietary information, litigation and other matters re-
quiring the confidential advice of counsel, commercial or financial
information obtained from a person on a privileged or confidential
basis, or the purchase of property or services whenever the pre-
mature exposure of such purchase would compromise the business
interests of any such organization. If any such meeting is closed
pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph, the organization in-
volved shall thereafter (within a reasonable period of time) make
available to the public a written statement containing an expla-
nation of the reasons for closing the meeting.
(5) Funds may not be distributed pursuant to this subsection
to any public telecommunications entity that does not maintain for
public examination copies of the annual financial and audit reports,
or other information regarding finances, submitted to the Corpora-
tion pursuant to subsection (1)(3)(B) 47 .
(6)(A) The Corporation shall conduct a study and prepare a
plan in consultation with public television licensees (or designated
representatives of those licensees) and the Public Broadcasting
Service, on how funds available to the Corporation under para-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00281 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
282Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
graph (3)(A)(ii)(II) can be best allocated to meet the objectives of
this Act with regard to national public television programming. The
plan, which shall be based on the conclusions resulting from the
study, shall be submitted by the Corporation to the Congress not
later than January 31, 1990. Unless directed otherwise by an Act
of Congress, the Corporation shall implement the plan during the
first fiscal year beginning after the fiscal year in which the plan
is submitted to Congress.
(B) The Corporation shall make a basic grant from the portion
reserved for television stations under paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I) to each
licensee and permittee of a public television station that is on the
air. The Corporation shall assist radio stations to maintain and im-
prove their service where public radio is the only broadcast service
available. The balance of the portion reserved for television sta-
tions and the total portion reserved for radio stations under para-
graph (3)(A)(iii)(I) shall be distributed to licensees and permittees
of such stations in accordance with eligibility criteria (which the
Corporation shall review periodically in consultation with public
radio and television licensees or permittees, or their designated
representatives) that promote the public interest in public broad-
casting, and on the basis of a formula designed to—
(i) provide for the financial needs and requirements of sta-
tions in relation to the communities and audiences such sta-
tions undertake to serve;
(ii) maintain existing, and stimulate new, sources of non-
Federal financial support for stations by providing incentives
for increases in such support; and
(iii) assure that each eligible licensee and permittee of a
public radio station receives a basic grant.
(7) The funds distributed pursuant to paragraph (3)(A)(ii)(I)
and (iii)(I) may be used at the discretion of the recipient for pur-
poses related primarily to the production or acquisition of program-
ming.
(8)(A) Funds may not be distributed pursuant to this subpart
to any public broadcast station (other than any station which is
owned and operated by a state, a political or special purpose sub-
division of a state or a public agency) unless such station estab-
lishes a community advisory board. Any such station shall under-
take good faith efforts to assure that (i) its advisory board meets
at regular intervals; (ii) the members of its advisory board regu-
larly attend the meetings of the advisory board; and (iii) the com-
position of its advisory board are reasonably representative of the
diverse needs and interests of the communities served by such sta-
tion.(B) The board shall be permitted to review the programming
goals established by the station, the service provided by the sta-
tion, and the significant policy decisions rendered by the station.
The board may also be delegated any other responsibilities, as de-
termined by the governing body of the station. The board shall ad-
vise the governing body of the station with respect to whether the
programming and other policies of such station are meeting the
specialized educational and cultural needs of the communities
served by the station, and may make such recommendations as it
considers appropriate to meet such needs.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00282 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
283 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
48 Section 701 of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act,
1999 (P.L. 105–277, 112 Stat. 2681–389) amended ‘‘section 396(k)(9) of Title 47’’, which is not
a codified title, rather than section 396(k)(9) of the Communications Act of 1934. The amend-
ment refers to the ‘‘Internal Revenue Code’’ rather than the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. The
amendment is effected in this compilation, but the reference to the Internal Revenue Code is
not corrected.
(C) The role of the board shall be solely advisory in nature, ex-
cept to the extent other responsibilities are delegated to the board
by the governing body of the station. In no case shall the board
have any authority to exercise any control over the daily manage-
ment or operation of the station.
(D) In the case of any public broadcast station (other than any
station which is owned and operated by a state, a political or spe-
cial purpose subdivision of a State, or a public agency) in existence
on the effective date of this paragraph, such station shall comply
with the requirements of this paragraph with respect to the estab-
lishment of a community advisory board not later than 180 days
after such effective date.
(E) The provision of subparagraph (A) prohibiting the distribu-
tion of funds to any public broadcast station (other than any sta-
tion which is owned and operated by a State, a political or special
purpose subdivision of a State, or a public agency) unless such sta-
tion establishes a community advisory board shall be the exclusive
remedy for the enforcement of the provisions of this paragraph.
(9) Funds may not be distributed pursuant to this subsection
to the Public Broadcasting Service or National Public Radio (or any
successor organization) unless assurances are provided to the Cor-
poration that no officer or employee of the Public Broadcasting
Service or National Public Radio (or any successor organization), as
the case may be, will be compensated in excess of reasonable com-
pensation as determined pursuant to Section 4958 of the Internal
Revenue Code for services that the officer or employee renders to
organization, 48 and unless further assurances are provided to the
Corporation that no officer or employee of such an entity will be
loaned money by that entity on an interest-free basis.
(10)(A) There is hereby established in the Treasury a fund
which shall be known as the Public Broadcasting Satellite Inter-
connection Fund (hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the
‘‘Satellite Interconnection Fund’’), to be administered by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury.
(B) There is authorized to be appropriated to the Satellite
Interconnection Fund, for fiscal year 1991, the amount of
$200,000,000. If such amount is not appropriated in full for fiscal
year 1991, the portion of such amount not yet appropriated is au-
thorized to be approriated for fiscal years 1992 and 1993. Funds
appropriated to the Satellite Interconnection Fund shall remain
available until expended.
(C) The Secretary of the Treasury shall make available and
disburse to the Corporation, at the beginning of fiscal year 1991
and of each succeeding fiscal year thereafter, such funds as have
been appropriated to the Satellite Interconnection Fund for the fis-
cal year in which such disbursement is to be made.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00283 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
284Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(D) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection ex-
cept paragraphs (4), (5), (8), and (9), all funds appropriated to the
Satellite Interconnection Fund and interest thereon—
(i) shall be distributed by the Corporation to the licensees
and permittees of noncommercial educational television broad-
cast stations providing public telecommunications services or
the national entity they designate for satellite interconnection
purposes and to those public telecommunications entities par-
ticipating in the public radio satellite interconnection system
or the national entity they designate for satellite interconnec-
tion purposes, exclusively for the capital costs of the replace-
ment, refurbishment, or upgrading of their national satellite
interconnection systems and associated maintenance of such
systems; and
(ii) shall not be used for the administrative costs of the
Corporation, the salaries or related expenses of Corporation
personnel and members of the Board, or for expenses of con-
sultants and advisers to the Corporation.
(11)(A) Funds may not be distributed pursuant to this sub-
section for any fiscal year to the licensee or permittee of any public
broadcast station if such licensee or permittee—
(i) fails to certify to the Corporation that such licensee or
permittee complies with the Commission’s regulations con-
cerning equal employment opportunity as published under sec-
tion 73.2080 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor regulations thereto; or
(ii) fails to submit to the Corporation the report required
by subparagraph (B) for the preceding calendar year.
(B) A licensee or permittee of any public broadcast station with
more than five full-time employees to file annually with the Cor-
poration a statistical report, consistent with reports required by
Commission regulation, identifying by race and sex the number of
employees in each of the following full-time and part-time job cat-
egories:
(i) Officials and managers.
(ii) Professionals.
(iii) Technicians.
(iv) Semiskilled operatives.
(v) Skilled craft persons.
(vi) Clerical and office personnel.
(vii) Unskilled operatives.
(viii) Service workers.
(C) In addition, such report shall state the number of job open-
ings occurring during the course of the year. Where the job open-
ings were filled in accordance with the regulations described in
subparagraph (A)(i), the report shall so certify, and where the job
openings were not filled in accordance with such regulations, the
report shall contain a statement providing reasons therefor. The
statistical report shall be available to the public at the central of-
fice and at every location where more than five full-time employees
are regularly assigned to work.
(12) Funds may not be distributed under this subsection to any
public broadcasting entity that directly or indirectly—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00284 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
285 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(A) rents contributor or donor names (or other personally
identifiable information) to or from, or exchanges such names
or information with, any Federal, State, or local candidate, po-
litical party, or political committee; or
(B) discloses contributor or donor names, or other person-
ally identifiable information, to any nonaffiliated third party
unless—
(i) such entity clearly and conspicuously discloses to
the contributor or donor that such information may be dis-
closed to such third party;
(ii) the contributor or donor is given the opportunity,
before the time that such information is initially disclosed,
to direct that such information not be disclosed to such
third party; and
(iii) the contributor or donor is given an explanation of
how the contributor or donor may exercise that nondisclo-
sure option.
Records and Audit
(l)(1)(A) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited annu-
ally in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by
independent certified public accountants or independent licensed
public accountants certified or licensed by a regulatory authority of
a State or other political subdivision of the United States, except
that such requirements shall not preclude shared auditing arrange-
ments between any public telecommunications entity and its li-
censee where such licensee is a public or private institution. The
audits shall be conducted at the place or places where the accounts
of the Corporation are normally kept. All books, accounts, financial
records, reports, files, and all other papers, things, or property be-
longing to or in use by the Corporation and necessary to facilitate
the audits shall be made available to the person or persons con-
ducting the audits; and full facilities for verifying transactions with
the balances or securities held by depositories, fiscal agents and
custodians shall be afforded to such person or persons.
(B) The report of each such independent audit shall set forth
the scope of the audit and include such statements as are nec-
essary to present fairly the Corporation’s assets and liabilities, sur-
plus or deficit, with an analysis of the changes therein during the
year, supplemented in reasonable detail by a statement of the Cor-
poration’s income and expenses during the year, and a statement
of the sources and application of funds, together with the inde-
pendent author’s opinion of those statements.
(2)(A) The financial transactions of the Corporation for any fis-
cal year during which Federal funds are available to finance any
portion of its operations may be audited by the General Accounting
Office in accordance with the principles and procedures applicable
to commercial corporate transactions and under such rules and reg-
ulations as may be prescribed by the Comptroller General of the
United States. Any such audit shall be conducted at the place or
places where accounts of the Corporation are normally kept. The
representative of the General Accounting Office shall have access
to all books, accounts, records, reports, files, and all other papers,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00285 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
286Sec. 396 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
things, or property belonging to or in use by the Corporation per-
taining to its financial transactions and necessary to facilitate the
audit, and they shall be afforded full facilities for verifying trans-
actions with the balances or securities held by depositories, fiscal
agents, and custodians. All such books, accounts, records, reports,
files, papers and property of the Corporation shall remain in pos-
session and custody of the Corporation.
(B) A report of each such audit shall be made by the Comp-
troller General to the Congress. The report to the Congress shall
contain such comments and information as the Comptroller Gen-
eral may deem necessary to inform Congress of the financial oper-
ations and condition of the Corporation, together with such rec-
ommendations with respect thereto as he may deem advisable. The
report shall also show specifically any program, expenditure, or
other financial transaction or undertaking observed in the course
of the audit, which, in the opinion of the Comptroller General, has
been carried on or made without authority of law. A copy of each
report shall be furnished to the President, to the Secretary, and to
the Corporation at the time submitted to the Congress.
(3)(A) Not later than 1 year after the effective date of this
paragraph, the Corporation, in consultation with the Comptroller
General, and as appropriate with others, shall develop accounting
principles which shall be used uniformly by all public telecommuni-
cations entities receiving funds under this subpart, taking into ac-
count organizational differences among various categories of such
entites. Such principles shall be designed to account fully for all
funds received and expended for public telecommunications pur-
poses by such entities.
(B) Each public telecommunications entity receiving funds
under this subpart shall be required—
(i) to keep its books, records, and accounts in such form as
may be required by the Corporation;
(ii)(I) to undergo a biennial audit by independent certified
public accountants or independent licensed public accountants
certified or licensed by a regulatory authority of a State, which
audit shall be in accordance with auditing standards developed
by the Corporation, in consultation with the Comptroller Gen-
eral; or
(II) to submit a financial statement in lieu of the audit re-
quired by subclause (I) if the Corporation determines that the
cost burden of such audit on such entity is excessive in light
of the financial condition of such entity; and
(iii) to furnish biennuially to the Corporation a copy of the
audit report required pursuant to the clause (ii), as well as
such other information regarding finances (including an annual
financial report) as the Corporation may require.
(C) Any recipient of assistance by grant or contract under this
section, other than a fixed price contract awarded pursuant to com-
petitive bidding procedures, shall keep such records as may be rea-
sonably necessary to disclose fully the amount and the disposition
by such recipient of such assistance, that total cost of the project
or undertaking in connection with which such assistance is given
or used, and the amount and nature of that portion of the cost of
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00286 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
287 Sec. 396COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the projects or undertaking supplied by other sources, and such
other records as will facilitate an effective audit.
(D) The Corporation or any of its duly authorized representa-
tives shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and
records of any recipient of assistance for the purpose of auditing
and examining all funds received or expended for public tele-
communications purposes by the recipient. The Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States or any of his duly authorized representa-
tives also shall have access to such books, documents, papers, and
records for the purpose of auditing and examining all funds re-
ceived or expended for public telecommunications purposes during
any fiscal year for which Federal funds are available to the Cor-
poration.
(4)(A) The Corporation shall maintain the information de-
scribed in subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) at its offices for public
inspection and copying for at least 3 years, according to such rea-
sonable guidelines as the Corporation may issue. This public file
shall be updated regularly. This paragraph shall be effective upon
its enactment and shall apply to all grants awarded after January
1, 1993.
(B) Subsequent to any award of funds by the Corporation for
the production or acquisition of national broadcasting programming
pursuant to subsection (k)(3)(A) (ii)(II) or (iii)(II), the Corporation
shall make available for public inspection the following:
(i) Grant and solicitation guidelines for proposals for such
programming.
(ii) The reasons for selecting the proposal for which the
award was made.
(iii) Information on each program for which the award was
made, including the names of the awardee and producer (and
if the awardee or producer is a corporation or partnership, the
principals of such corporation or partnership), the monetary
amount of the award, and the title and description of the pro-
gram (and of each program in a series of programs).
(iv) A report based on the final audit findings resulting
from any audit of the award by the Corporation or the Comp-
troller General.
(v) Reports which the Corporation shall require to be pro-
vided by the awardee relating to national public broadcasting
programming funded, produced, or acquired by the awardee
with such funds. Such reports shall include, where applicable,
the information described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii), but shall
exclude proprietary, confidential, or privileged information.
(C) The Corporation shall make available for public inspection
the final report required by the Corporation on an annual basis
from each recipient of funds under subsection (k)(3)(A)(iii)(III), ex-
cluding proprietary, confidential, or privileged information.
(D) The Corporation shall make available for public inspection
an annual list of national programs distributed by public broad-
casting entities that receive funds under subsection (k)(3)(A)
(ii)(III) or (iii)(II) and are engaged primarily in the national dis-
tribution of public television or radio programs. Such list shall in-
clude the names of the programs (or program series), producers,
and providers of funding.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00287 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
288Sec. 397 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
Subpart E—General
SEC. 397. ø47 U.S.C. 397¿ DEFINITIONS.
For the purposes of this part—
(1) The term ‘‘construction’’ (as applied to public telecommuni-
cations facilities) means acquisition (including acquisition by lease),
installation, and modernization of public telecommunications facili-
ties and planning and preparatory steps incidental to any such ac-
quisition, installation, or modernization.
(2) The term ‘‘Corporation’’ means the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting authorized to be established in subpart D.
(3) The term ‘‘interconnection’’ means the use of microwave
equipment, boosters, translators, repeaters, communication space
satellites, or other apparatus or equipment for the transmission
and distribution of television or radio programs to public tele-
communications entities.
(4) The term ‘‘interconnection system’’ means any system of
interconnection facilities used for the distribution of programs to
public telecommunications entities.
(5) The term ‘‘meeting’’ means the deliberations of at least the
number of members of a governing or advisory body, or any com-
mittee thereof, required to take action on behalf of such body or
committee where such deliberations determine or result in the joint
conduct or disposition of the governing or advisory body’s business,
or the committee’s business, as the case may be, but only to the
extent that such deliberations relate to public broadcasting.
(6) The terms ‘‘noncommercial educational broadcast station’’
and ‘‘public broadcast station’’ mean a television or radio broadcast
station which—
(A) under the rules and regulations of the Commission in
effect on the effective date of this paragraph, is eligible to be
licensed by the Commission as a noncommercial educational
radio or television broadcast station and which is owned and
operated by a public agency or nonprofit private foundation,
corporation, or association; or
(B) is owned and operated by a municipality and which
transmits only noncommercial programs for education pur-
poses.
(7) The term ‘‘noncommercial telecommunications entity’’
means any enterprise which—
(A) is owned and operated by a State, a political or special
purpose subdivision of a State, a public agency, or a nonprofit
private foundation, corporation, or association; and
(B) has been organized primarily for the purpose of dis-
seminating audio or video noncommercial educational and cul-
tural programs to the public by means other than a primary
television or radio broadcast station, including, but not limited
to, coaxial cable, optical fiber, broadcast translators, cassettes,
discs, microwave, or laser transmission through the atmos-
phere.
(8) The term ‘‘nonprofit’’ (as applied to any foundation, corpora-
tion, or association) means a foundation, corporation, or associa-
tion, no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully
inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00288 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
289 Sec. 397COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(9) The term ‘‘non-Federal financial support’’ means the total
value of cash and the fair market value of property and services
(including, to the extent provided in the second sentence of this
paragraph, the personal services of volunteers) received—
(A) as gifts, grants, bequests, donations, or other contribu-
tions for the construction or operation of noncommercial edu-
cational broadcast stations, or for the production, acquisition,
distribution, or dissemination of educational television or radio
programs, and related activities, from any source other than (i)
the United States or any agency or instrumentality of the
United States; or (ii) any public broadcasting entity; or
(B) as gifts, grants, donations, contributions, or payments
from any State, or any educational institution, for the construc-
tion or operation of noncommercial educational broadcast sta-
tions or for the production, acquisition, distribution, or dissemi-
nation of educational television or radio programs, or payments
in exchange for services or materials with respect to the provi-
sion of educational or instructional television or radio pro-
grams.
Such term includes the fair market value of personal services of
volunteers, as computed using the valuation standards established
by the Corporation, but only with respect to such an entity in a fis-
cal year, to the extent that the value of the services does not exceed
5 percent of the total non-Federal financial support of the entity in
such fiscal year.
(10) The term ‘‘preoperational expenses’’ means all non-
construction costs incurred by new telecommunications entities be-
fore the date on which they begin providing service to the public,
and all nonconstruction costs associated with expansion of existing
entities before the date on which such expanded capacity is acti-
vated, except that such expenses shall not include any portion of
the salaries of any personnel employed by an operating public tele-
communications entity.
(11) The term ‘‘Public broadcasting entity’’ means the Corpora-
tion, any licensee or permittee of a public broadcast station, or any
nonprofit institution engaged primarily in the production, acquisi-
tion, distribution, or dissemination of educational and cultural tele-
vision or radio programs.
(12) The term ‘‘public telecommunications entity’’ means any
enterprise which—
(A) is a public broadcast station or a noncommercial tele-
communications entity; and
(B) disseminates public telecommunications services to the
public.
(13) The term ‘‘public telecommunications facilities’’ means ap-
paratus necessary for production, interconnection, captioning,
broadcast, or other distribution of programming, including, but not
limited to, studio equipment, cameras, microphones, audio and
video storage or reproduction equipment, or both, signal processors
and switchers, towers, antennas, transmitters, translators, micro-
wave equipment, mobile equipment, satellite communications
equipment, instructional television fixed service equipment, sub-
sidiary communications authorization transmitting and receiving
equipment, cable television equipment, video and audio cassettes
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00289 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
290Sec. 398 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
and discs, optical fiber communications equipment, and other
means of transmitting, emitting, storing, and receiving images and
sounds, or intelligence, except that such term does not include the
buildings to house such apparatus (other than small equipment
shelters which are part of satellite earth stations, translators,
microwave interconnection facilities, and similar facilities).
(14) The term ‘‘public telecommunications services’’ means non-
commercial educational and cultural radio and television programs,
and related noncommercial instructional or informational material
that may be transmitted by means of electronic communications.
(15) The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of Commerce
when such term is used in subpart A and subpart B, and the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services when such term is used in
subpart C, subpart D, and this subpart.
(16) The term ‘‘State’’ includes the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, Amer-
ican Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Trust Terri-
tory of the Pacific Islands.
(17) The term ‘‘system of public telecommunications entities’’
means any combination of public telecommunications entities act-
ing cooperatively to produce, acquire, or distribute programs, or to
undertake related activities.
SEC. 398. ø47 U.S.C. 398¿ FEDERAL INTERFERENCE OR CONTROL PRO-
HIBITED; EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
(a) Nothing contained in this part shall be deemed (1) to
amend any other provision of, or requirement under, this Act; or
(2) except to the extent authorized in subsection (b), to authorize
any department, agency, officer, or employee of the United States
to exercise any direction, supervision, or control over public tele-
communications, or over the Corporation or any of its grantees or
contractors, or over the charter or bylaws of the Corporation, or
over the curriculum, program of instruction, or personnel of any
educational institution, school system, or public telecommuni-
cations entity.
(b)(1) Equal opportunity in employment shall be afforded to all
persons by the Public Broadcasting Service and National Public
Radio (or any successor organization) and by all public tele-
communications entities receiving funds pursuant to subpart C
(hereinafter in this subsection referred to as ‘‘recipients’’), in ac-
cordance with the equal employment opportunity regulations of the
Commission, and no person shall be subjected to discrimination in
employment by any recipient on the grounds of race, color, religion,
national origin, or sex.
(2)(A) The Secretary is authorized and directed to enforce this
subsection and to prescribe such rules and regulations as may be
necessary to carry out the functions of the Secretary under this
subsection.
(B) The Secretary shall provide for close coordination with the
Commission in the administration of the responsibilities of the Sec-
retary under this subsection which are of interest to or affect the
functions of the Commission so that, to the maximum extent pos-
sible consistent with the enforcement responsibilities of each, the
reporting requirements of public telecommunications entities shall
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00290 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
291 Sec. 398COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
be uniformly based upon consistent definitions and categories of in-
formation.
(3)(A) The Corporation shall incorporate into each grant agree-
ment or contract with any recipient entered into on or after the ef-
fective date of the rules and regulations prescribed by the Sec-
retary pursuant to paragraph (2)(A), a statement indicating that,
as a material part of the terms and conditions of the grant agree-
ment or contract, the recipient will comply with the provisions of
paragraph (1) and the rules and regulations prescribed pursuant to
paragraph (2)(A). Any person which desires to be a recipient (with-
in the meaning of paragraph (1)) of funds under subpart C shall,
before receiving any such funds, provide to the Corporation any in-
formation which the Corporation may require to satisfy itself that
such person is affording equal opportunity in employment in ac-
cordance with the requirements of this subsection. Determinations
made by the Corporation in accordance with the preceding sentence
shall be based upon guidelines relating to equal opportunity in em-
ployment which shall be established by rule by the Secretary.
(B) If the Corporation is not satisfied that any such person is
affording equal opportunity in employment in accordance with the
requirements of this subsection, the Corporation shall notify the
Secretary, and the Secretary shall review the matter and make a
final determination regarding whether such person is affording
equal opportunity in employment. In any case in which the Sec-
retary conducts a review under the preceding sentence the Cor-
poration shall make funds available to the person involved pursu-
ant to the grant application of such person (if the Corporation
would have approved such application but for the finding of the
Corporation under this paragraph) pending a final determination of
the Secretary upon completion of such review. The Corporation
shall monitor the equal employment opportunity practices of each
recipient throughout the duration of the grant or contract.
(C) The provisions of subparagraph (A) and subparagraph (B)
shall take effect on the effective date of the rules and regulations
prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph (2)(A).
(4) Based upon its responsibilities under paragraph (3), the
Corporation shall provide an annual report for the preceding fiscal
year ending September 30 to the Secretary on or before the 15th
day of February of each year. The report shall contain information
in the form required by the Secretary. The Corporation shall pro-
vide other information in the form which the Secretary may require
in order to carry out the functions of the Secretary under this sub-
section.
(5) Whenever the Secretary makes a final determination, pur-
suant to the rules and regulations which the Secretary shall pre-
scribe, that a recipient is not in compliance with paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall within 10 days after such determination, notify the
recipient in writing of such determination and request the recipient
to secure compliance. Unless the recipient within 120 days after re-
ceipt of such written notice—
(A) demonstrates to the Secretary that the violation has
been corrected; or
(B) enters into a compliance agreement approved by the
Secretary;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00291 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
292Sec. 399 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the Secretary shall direct the Corporation to reduce or suspend any
further payments of funds under this part to the recipient and the
Corporation shall comply with such directive. Resumption of pay-
ments shall take place only when the Secretary certifies to the Cor-
poration that the recipient has entered into a compliance agree-
ment approved by the Secretary. A recipient whose funds have
been reduced or suspended under this paragraph may apply at any
time to the Secretary for such certification.
(c) Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize any
department, agency, officer, or employee of the United States to ex-
ercise any direction, supervision, or control over the content or dis-
tribution of public telecommunications programs and services, or
over the curriculum or program of instruction of any educational
institution or school system.
SEC. 399. ø47 U.S.C. 399¿ SUPPORT OF POLITICAL CANDIDATES PRO-
HIBITED.
No noncommercial educational broadcasting station may sup-
port or oppose any candidate for political office.
SEC. 399A. ø47 U.S.C. 399a¿ USE OF BUSINESS OR INSTITUTIONAL
LOGOGRAMS.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘business or institu-
tional logogram’’ means any aural or visual letters or words, or any
symbol or sign, which is used for the exclusive purpose of identi-
fying any corporation, company, or other organization, and which
is not used for the purpose of promoting the products, services, or
facilities of such corporation, company, or other organization.
(b) Each public television station and each public radio station
shall be authorized to broadcast announcements which include the
use of any business or institutional logogram and which include a
reference to the location of the corporation, company, or other orga-
nization involved, except that such announcements may not inter-
rupt regular programming.
(c) The provisions of this section shall not be construed to limit
the authority of the Commission to prescribe regulations relating
to the manner in which logograms may be used to identify corpora-
tions, companies, or other organizations.
SEC. 399B. ø47 U.S.C. 399b¿ OFFERING OF CERTAIN SERVICES, FACILI-
TIES, OR PRODUCTS BY PUBLIC BROADCAST STATIONS.
(a) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘advertisement’’
means any message or other programming material which is broad-
cast or otherwise transmitted in exchange for any remuneration,
and which is intended—
(1) to promote any service, facility, or product offered by
any person who is engaged in such offering for profit;
(2) to express the views of any person with respect to any
matter of public importance or interest; or
(3) to support or oppose any candidate for political office.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), each public broad-
cast station shall be authorized to engage in the offering of serv-
ices, facilities, or products in exchange for remuneration.
(2) No public broadcast station may make its facilities avail-
able to any person for the broadcasting of any advertisement.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00292 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
293 Sec. 402COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(c) Any public broadcast station which engages in any offering
specified in subsection (b)(1) may not use any funds distributed by
the Corporation under section 396(k) to defray any costs associated
with such offering. Any such offering by a public broadcast station
shall not interfere with the provision of public telecommunications
services by such station.
(d) Each public broadcast station which engages in the activity
specified in subsection (b)(1) shall, in consultation with the Cor-
poration, develop an accounting system which is designed to iden-
tify any amounts received as remuneration for, or costs related to,
such activities under this section, and to account for such amounts
separately from any other amounts received by such station from
any source.
TITLE IV—PROCEDURAL AND
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. ø47 U.S.C. 401¿ JURISDICTION TO ENFORCE ACT AND ORDERS
OF COMMISSION.
(a) The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdic-
tion, upon application of the Attorney General of the United States
at the request of the Commission, alleging a failure to comply with
or a violation of any of the provisions of this Act by any person,
to issue a writ or writs of mandamus commanding such person to
comply with the provisions of this Act.
(b) If any person fails or neglects to obey any order of the Com-
mission other than for the payment of money, while the same is in
effect, the Commission or any party injured thereby, or the United
States, by its Attorney General, may apply to the appropriate dis-
trict court of the United States for the enforcement of such order.
If, after hearing, that court determines that the order was regu-
larly made and duly served, and that the person is in disobedience
of the same, the court shall enforce obedience to such order by a
writ of injunction or other proper process, mandatory or otherwise,
to restrain such person or the officers, agents, or representatives of
such person, from further disobedience of such order, or to enjoin
upon it or them obedience to the same.
(c) Upon the request of the Commission it shall be the duty of
any district attorney of the United States to whom the Commission
may apply to institute in the proper court and to prosecute under
the direction of the Attorney General of the United States all nec-
essary proceedings for the enforcement of the provisions of this Act
and for the punishment of all violations thereof, and the costs and
expenses of such prosecutions shall be paid out of the appropria-
tions for the expenses of the courts of the United States.
SEC. 402. ø47 U.S.C. 402¿ PROCEEDINGS TO ENJOIN, SET ASIDE, ANNUL,
OR SUSPEND ORDERS OF THE COMMISSION.
(a) Any proceeding to enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend any
order of the Commission under this Act (except those appealable
under subsection (b) of this section) shall be brought as provided
by and in the manner prescribed in chapter 158 of title 28, United
States Code.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00293 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
294Sec. 402 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
49 Margin of paragraph (10) so in law.
(b) Appeals may be taken from decisions and orders of the
Commission to the United States Court of Appeals for the District
of Columbia in any of the following cases:
(1) By any applicant for a construction permit or station li-
cense, whose application is denied by the Commission.
(2) By any applicant for the renewal or modification of any
such instrument of authorization whose application is denied by
the Commission.
(3) By any party to an application for authority to transfer, as-
sign, or dispose of any such instrument of authorization, or any
rights thereunder, whose application is denied by the Commission.
(4) By any applicant for the permit required by section 325 of
this act whose application has been denied by the Commission, or
by any permittee under said section whose permit has been re-
voked by the Commission.
(5) By the holder of any construction permit or station license
which has been modified or revoked by the Commission.
(6) By any other person who is aggrieved or whose interests
are adversely affected by any order of the Commission granting or
denying any application described in paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4),
and (9) hereof.
(7) By any person upon whom an order to cease and desist has
been served under section 312 of this Act.
(8) By any radio operator whose license has been suspended by
the Commission.
(9) By any applicant for authority to provide interLATA serv-
ices under section 271 of this Act whose application is denied by
the Commission.
(10) 49 By any person who is aggrieved or whose interests
are adversely affected by a determination made by the Com-
mission under section 717(a)(3).
(c) Such appeal shall be taken by filing a notice of appeal with
the court within thirty days from the date upon which public notice
is given of the decision or order complained of. Such notice of ap-
peal shall contain a concise statement of the nature of the
preceedings as to which the appeal is taken; a concise statement
of the reasons on which the appellant intends to rely, separately
stated and numbered; and proof of service of a true copy of said no-
tice and statement upon the Commission. Upon filing of such no-
tice, the court shall have jurisdiction of the proceedings and of the
questions determined therein and shall have power, by order, di-
rected to the Commission or any other party to the appeal, to grant
such temporary relief as it may deem just and proper. Orders
granting temporary relief may be either affirmative or negative in
their scope and application so as to permit either the maintenance
of the status quo in the matter in which the appeal is taken or the
restoration of a position or status terminated or adversely affected
by the order appealed from and shall, unless otherwise ordered by
the court, be effective pending hearing and determination of said
appeal and compliance by the Commission with the final judgment
of the court rendered in said appeal.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00294 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
295 Sec. 403COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(d) Upon the filing of any such notice of appeal the appellant
shall, not later than five days after the filing of such notice, notify
each person shown by the records of the Commission to be inter-
ested in said appeal of the filing and pendency of the same. The
Commission shall file with the court the record upon which the
order complained of was entered, as provided in section 2112 of
title 28, United States Code.
(e) Within thirty days after the filing of any such appeal any
interested person may intervene and participate in the proceedings
had upon said appeal by filing with the court a notice of intention
to intervene and a verified statement showing the nature of the in-
terest of such party, together with proof of service of true copies of
said notice and statement, both upon appellant and upon the Com-
mission. Any person who would be aggrieved or whose interest
would be adversely affected by a reversal or modification of the
order of the Commission complained of shall be considered an in-
terested party.
(f) The record and briefs upon which any such appeal shall be
heard and determined by the court shall contain such information
and material, and shall be prepared within such time and in such
manner as the court may by rule prescribe.
(g) The court shall hear and determine the appeal upon the
record before it in the manner prescribed by section 706 of title 5,
United States Code.
(h) In the event that the court shall render a decision and
enter an order reversing the order of the Commission, it shall re-
mand the case to the Commission to carry out the judgment of the
court and it shall be the duty of the Commission, in the absence
of the proceedings to review such judgment, to forthwith give effect
thereto, and unless otherwise ordered by the court, to do so upon
the basis of the proceedings already had and the record upon which
said appeal was heard and determined.
(i) The court may, in its discretion, enter judgment for costs in
favor of or against an appellant, or other interested parties inter-
vening in said appeal, but not against the Commission, depending
upon the nature of the issues involved upon said appeal and the
outcome thereof.
(j) The court’s judgment shall be final, subject, however, to re-
view by the Supreme Court of the United States upon writ of cer-
tiorari on petition therefor under section 1254 of title 28 of the
United States Code, by the appellant, by the Commission, or by
any interested party intervening in the appeal, or by certification
by the court pursuant to the provisions of that section.
SEC. 403. ø47 U.S.C. 403¿ INQUIRY BY COMMISSION ON ITS OWN MO-
TION.
The Commission shall have full authority and power at any
time to institute an inquiry, on its own motion, in any case and as
to any matter or thing concerning which complaint is authorized to
be made, to or before the Commission by any provision of this Act,
or concerning which any question may arise under any of the provi-
sions of this Act, or relating to the enforcement of any of the provi-
sions of this Act. The Commission shall have the same powers and
authority to proceed with any inquiry instituted on its own motion
as though it had been appealed to by complaint or petition under
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00295 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
296Sec. 404 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
any of the provisions of this Act, including the power to make and
enforce any order or orders in the case, or relating to the matter
or thing concerning which the inquiry is had, excepting orders for
the payment of money.
SEC. 404. ø47 U.S.C. 404¿ REPORTS OF INVESTIGATIONS.
Whenever an investigation shall be made by the Commission
it shall be its duty to make a report in writing in respect thereto,
which shall state the conclusions of the Commission, together with
its decision, order, or requirements in the premises; and in case
damages are awarded such report shall include the findings of fact
on which the award is made.
SEC. 405. ø47 U.S.C. 405¿ RECONSIDERATIONS.
(a) After an order, decision, report, or action has been made or
taken in any proceeding by the Commission, or by any designated
authority within the Commission pursuant to a delegation under
section 5(c)(1), any party thereto, or any other person aggrieved or
whose interests are adversely affected thereby, may petition for re-
consideration only to the authority making or taking the order, de-
cision, report, or action; and it shall be lawful for such authority,
whether it be the Commission or other authority designated under
section 5(c)(1), in its discretion, to grant such a reconsideration if
sufficient reason therefor be made to appear. A petition for recon-
sideration must be filed within thirty days from the date upon
which public notice is given of the order, decision, report, or action
complained of. No such application shall excuse any person from
complying with or obeying any order, decision, report, or action of
the Commission, or operate in any manner to stay or postpone the
enforcement thereof, without the special order of the Commission.
The filing of a petition for reconsideration shall not be a condition
precedent to judicial review of any such order, decision, report, or
action, except where the party seeking such review (1) was not a
party to the proceedings resulting in such order, decision, report,
or action, or (2) relies on questions of fact or law upon which the
Commission, or designated authority within the Commission, has
been afforded no opportunity to pass. The Commission, or des-
ignated authority within the Commission, shall enter an order,
with a concise statement of the reasons therefor, denying a petition
for reconsideration or granting such petition, in whole or in part,
and ordering such further proceedings as may be appropriate: Pro-
vided, That in any case where such petition relates to an instru-
ment of authorization granted without a hearing, the Commission,
or designated authority within the Commission, shall take such ac-
tion within ninety days of the filing of such petition. Reconsider-
ations shall be governed by such general rules as the Commission
may establish, except that no evidence other than newly discovered
evidence, evidence which has become available only since the origi-
nal taking of evidence, or evidence which the Commission or des-
ignated authority within the Commission believes should have been
taken in the original proceeding shall be taken on any reconsider-
ation. The time within which a petition for review must be filed in
a proceeding to which section 402(a) applies, or within which an
appeal must be taken under section 402(b) in any case, shall be
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00296 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
297 Sec. 407COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
computed from the date upon which the Commission gives public
notice of the order, decision, report, or action complained of.
(b)(1) Within 90 days after receiving a petition for reconsider-
ation of an order concluding a hearing under section 204(a) or con-
cluding an investigation under section 208(b), the Commission
shall issue an order granting or denying such petition.
(2) Any order issued under paragraph (1) shall be a final order
and may be appealed under section 402(a).
SEC. 406. ø47 U.S.C. 406¿ MANDAMUS TO COMPEL FURNISHING OF FA-
CILITIES.
The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction
upon the relation of any person alleging any violation, by a carrier
subject to this Act, of any of the provisions of this Act which pre-
vent the relator from receiving service in interstate or foreign com-
munication by wire or radio, or in interstate or foreign trans-
mission of energy by radio, from said carrier at the same charges,
or upon terms or conditions as favorable as those given by said car-
rier for like communication or transmission under similar condi-
tions to any other person, to issue a writ or writs of mandamus
against said carrier commanding such carrier to furnish facilities
for such communication or transmission to the party applying for
the writ: Provided, That if any question of fact as to the proper
compensation to the carrier for the service to be enforced by the
writ is raised by the pleadings, the writ of peremptory mandamus
may issue, notwithstanding such question of fact is undetermined,
upon such terms as to security, payment of money into the court,
or otherwise, as the court may think proper pending the
detemination of the question of fact: Provided further, That the
remedy hereby given by writ of mandamus shall be cumulative and
shall not be held to exclude or interfere with other remedies pro-
vided by this Act.
SEC. 407. ø47 U.S.C. 407¿ PETITION FOR ENFORCEMENT OF ORDER FOR
PAYMENT OF MONEY.
If a carrier does not comply with an order for the payment of
money within the time limit in such order, the complainant, or any
person for whose benefit such order was made, may file in the dis-
trict court of the United States for the district in which he resides
or in which is located the principal operating office of the carrier,
or through which the line of the carrier runs, or in any State court
of general jurisdiction having jurisdiction of the parties, a petition
setting forth briefly the causes for which he claims damages, and
the order of the Commission in the premises. Such suit in the dis-
trict court of the United States shall proceed in all respects like
other civil suits for damages, except that on the trial of such suits
the findings and order of the Commission shall be prima facie evi-
dence of the facts therein stated, except that the petitioner shall
not be liable for costs in the district court nor for costs at any sub-
sequent stage of the proceedings unless they accrue upon his ap-
peal. If the petitioner shall finally prevail, he shall be allowed a
reasonable attorney’s fee, to be taxed and collected as a part of the
costs of the suit.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00297 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
298Sec. 408 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 408. ø47 U.S.C. 408¿ ORDERS NOT FOR PAYMENT OF MONEY—
WHEN EFFECTIVE.
Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all orders of the Com-
mission, other than orders for the payment of money, shall take ef-
fect thirty calendar days from the date upon which public notice of
the order is given, unless the Commission designates a different ef-
fective date. All such orders shall continue in force for the period
of time specified in the order or until the Commission or a court
of competent jurisdiction issues a superseding order.
SEC. 409. ø47 U.S.C. 409¿ GENERAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO PRO-
CEEDINGS—WITNESSES AND DEPOSITIONS.
(a) In every case of adjudication (as defined in the Administra-
tive Procedure Act) which has been designated by the Commission
for hearing, the person or persons conducting the hearing shall pre-
pare and file an initial, tentative, or recommended decision, except
where such person or persons become unavailable to the Commis-
sion or where the Commission finds upon the record that due and
timely execution of its functions imperatively and unavoidably re-
quire that the record be certified to the Commission for initial or
final decision.
(b) In every case of adjudication (as defined in the Administra-
tive Procedure Act) which has been designated by the Commission
for hearing, any party to the proceeding shall be permitted to file
exceptions and memoranda in support thereof to the initial, ten-
tative, or recommended decision, which shall be passed upon by the
Commission or by the authority within the Commission, if any, to
whom the function of passing upon the exceptions is delegated
under section 5(d)(1): Provided, however, That such authority shall
not be the same authority which made the decision to which the
exception is taken.
(c)(1) In any case of adjudication (as defined in the Administra-
tive Procedure Act) which has been designated by the Commission
for a hearing, no person who has participated in the presentation
or preparation for presentation of such case at the hearing or upon
review shall (except to the extent required for the disposition of
exparte matters as authorized by law) directly or indirectly make
any additional presentation respecting such case to the hearing of-
ficer or officers or to the Commission, or to any authority within
the Commission to whom, in such case, review functions have been
delegated by the Commission under section 5(d)(1), unless upon no-
tice and opportunity for all parties to participate.
(2) The provision in subsection (c) of section 5 of the Adminis-
trative Procedure Act which states that such subsection shall not
apply in determining applications for initial licenses, shall not be
applicable hereafter in the case of applications for initial licenses
before the Federal Communications Commission.
(d) To the extent that the foregoing provisions of this section
and section 5(d) are in conflict with the provisions of the Adminis-
trative Procedure Act, such provisions of this section and section
5(d) shall be held to supersede and modify the provisions of that
Act. (e) For the purposes of this Act the Commission shall have the
power to require by subpena the attendance and testimony of wit-
nesses and the production of all books, papers, schedules of
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00298 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
299 Sec. 409COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
charges, contracts, agreements, and documents relating to any mat-
ter under investigation. Witnesses summoned before the Commis-
sion shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid wit-
nesses in the courts of the United States.
(f) Such attendance of witnesses, and the production of such
documentary evidence, may be required from any place in the
United States, at any designated place of hearing. And in case of
disobedience to a subpena the Commission, or any party to a pro-
ceeding before the Commission, may invoke the aid of any court of
the United States in requiring the attendance and testimony of wit-
nesses and the production of books, papers, and documents under
the provisions of this section.
(g) Any of the district courts of the United States within the
jurisdiction of which such inquiry is carried on may, in case of con-
tumacy or refusal to obey a subpena issued to any common carrier
or licensee or other person, issue an order requiring such common
carrier, licensee, and other person to appear before the Commission
(and produce books and papers if so ordered) and give evidence
touching the matter in question; and any failure to obey such order
of the court may be punished by such court as a contempt thereof.
(h) The testimony of any witness may be taken, at the instance
of a party, in any proceeding or investigation pending before the
Commission, by deposition, at any time after a cause or proceeding
is at issue on petition and answer. The Commission may also order
testimony to be taken by deposition in any proceeding or investiga-
tion pending before it, at any stage of such proceeding or investiga-
tion. Such depositions may be taken before any judge of any court
of the United States, or any United States Commissioner, or any
clerk of a district court, or any chancellor, justice, or judge of a su-
preme or superior court, mayor, or chief magistrate of a city, judge
of a county court, or court of common pleas of any of the United
States, or any notary public, not being of counsel or attorney to ei-
ther of the parties, nor interested in the event of the proceeding or
investigation. Reasonable notice must first be given in writing by
the party or his attorney proposing to take such deposition to the
opposite party or his attorney of record, as either may be nearest,
which notice shall state the name of the witness and the time and
place of the taking of his deposition. Any person may be compelled
to appear and depose, and to produce documentary evidence, in the
same manner as witnesses may be compelled to appear and testify
and produce documentary evidence before the Commission, as here-
inbefore provided.
(i) Every person deposing as herein provided shall be cautioned
and sworn (or affirm, if he so request) to testify the whole truth,
and shall be carefully examined. His testimony shall be reduced to
writing by the magistrate taking the deposition, or under his direc-
tion, and shall, after it has been reduced to writing, be subscribed
by the deponent.
(j) If a witness whose testimony may be desired to be taken by
deposition be in a foreign country, the deposition may be taken be-
fore an officer or person designated by the Commission, or agreed
upon by the parties by stipulation in writing to be filed with the
Commission. All depositions must be promptly filed with the Com-
mission.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00299 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
300Sec. 410 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(k) Witnesses whose depositions are taken as authorized in
this Act, and the magistrates or other officer taking the same, shall
severally be entitled to the same fees as are paid for like services
in the courts of the United States.
ø(l) Repealed.¿
(m) Any person who shall neglect or refuse to attend and tes-
tify, or to answer any lawful inquiry, or to produce books, papers,
schedules of charges, contracts, agreements, and documents, if in
his power to do so, in obedience to the subpena or lawful require-
ment of the Commission, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof by a court of competent jurisdiction shall
be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $5,000,
or by imprisonment for not more than one year, or by both such
fine and imprisonment.
SEC. 410. ø47 U.S.C. 410¿ USE OF JOINT BOARDS—COOPERATION WITH
STATE COMMISSIONS.
(a) Except as provided in section 409, the Commission may
refer any matter arising in the administration of this Act to a joint
board to be composed of a member, or of an equal number of mem-
bers, as determined by the Commission, from each of the States in
which the wire or radio communication affected by or involved in
the proceeding takes place or is proposed. For purposes of acting
upon such matter any such board shall have all the jurisdiction
and powers conferred by law upon an examiner provided for in sec-
tion 11 of the Administrative Procedure Act, designated by the
Commission, and shall be subject to the same duties and obliga-
tions. The action of a joint board shall have such force and effect
and its proceedings shall be conducted in such manner as the Com-
mission shall by regulations prescribe. The joint board member or
members for each State shall be nominated by the State commision
of the State or by the Governor if there is no State commission, and
appointed by the Federal Communications Commission. The Com-
mission shall have discretion to reject any nominee. Joint Board
members shall receive such allowances for expenses as the Com-
mission shall provide.
(b) The Commission may confer with any State commission
having regulatory jurisdiction with respect to carriers, regarding
the relationship between rate structures, accounts, charges, prac-
tices, classifications, and regulations of carriers subject to the juris-
diction of such State commission and of the Commission; and the
Commission is authorized under such rules and regulations as it
shall prescribe to hold joint hearings with any State commission in
connection with any matter with respect to which the Commission
is authorized to act. The Commission is authorized in the adminis-
tration of this Act to avail itself of such cooperation, services,
records, and facilities as may be afforded by any State commission.
(c) The Commission shall refer any proceeding regarding the
jurisdictional separation of common carrier property and expenses
between interstate and intrastate operations, which it institutes
pursuant to a notice of proposed rulemaking and, except as pro-
vided in section 409 of this Act, may refer any other matter, relat-
ing to common carrier communications of joint Federal-State con-
cern, to a Federal-State Joint Board. The Joint Board shall possess
the same jurisdiction, power, duties, and obligations as a joint
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00300 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
301 Sec. 412COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
board established under subsection (a) of this section, and shall
prepare a recommended decision for prompt review and action by
the Commission. In addition, the State members of the Joint Board
shall sit with the Commission en banc at any oral agrument that
may be scheduled in the proceeding. The Commission shall also af-
ford the State members of the Joint Board an opportunity to par-
ticipate in its deliberations, but not vote, when it has under consid-
eration the recommended decision of the Joint Board or any further
decisional action that may be required in the proceeding. The Joint
Board shall be composed of three Commissioners of the Commis-
sion and of four State commissioners nominated by the national or-
ganization of the State commissions and approved by the Commis-
sion. The Chairman of the Commission, or another Commissioner
designated by the Commission, shall serve as Chairman of the
Joint Board.
SEC. 411. ø47 U.S.C. 411¿ JOINDER OF PARTIES.
(a) In any proceeding for the enforcement of the provisions of
this Act, whether such proceeding be instituted before the Commis-
sion or be begun originally in any district court of the United
States, it shall be lawful to include as parties, in addition to the
carrier, all persons interested in or affected by the charge, regula-
tion, or practice under consideration, and inquiries, investigations,
orders, and decrees may be made with reference to and against
such additional parties in the same manner, to the same extent,
and subject to the same provisions as are or shall be authorized by
law with respect to carriers.
(b) In any suit for the enforcement of an order for the payment
of money all parties in whose favor the Commission may have
made an award for damages by a single order may be joined as
plaintiffs, and all of the carriers parties to such order awarding
such damages may be joined as defendants, and such suit may be
maintained by such joint plaintiffs and against such joint defend-
ants in any district where any one of such joint plaintiffs could
maintain such suit against any one of such joint defendants; and
service of process against any one of such defendants as may not
be found in the district where the suit is brought may be made in
any district where such defendant carrier has its principal oper-
ating office. In case of such joint suit, the recovery, if any, may be
by judgment in favor of any one of such plaintiffs, against the de-
fendant found to be liable to such plaintiff.
SEC. 412. ø47 U.S.C. 412¿ DOCUMENTS FILED TO BE PUBLIC RECORDS—
USE IN PROCEEDINGS.
The copies of schedules of charges, classifications, and of all
contracts, agreements, and arrangements between common carriers
filed with the Commission as herein provided, and the statistics,
tables, and figures contained in the annual or other reports of car-
riers and other persons made to the Commission as required under
the provisions of this Act shall be preserved as public records in
the custody of the secretary of the Commission, and shall be re-
ceived as prima facie evidence of what they purport to be for the
purpose of investigations by the Commission and in all judicial pro-
ceedings; and copies of and extracts from any of said schedules,
classifications, contracts, agreements, arrangements, or reports
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00301 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
302Sec. 413 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
made public records as aforesaid, certified by the secretary, under
the Commission’s seal, shall be received in evidence with like effect
as the originals: Provided, That the Commission may, if the public
interest will be served thereby, keep confidential any contract,
agreement, or arrangement relating to foreign wire or radio com-
munication when the publication of such contract, agreement, or
arrangement would place American communication companies at a
disadvantage in meeting the competition of foreign communication
companies.
SEC. 413. ø47 U.S.C. 413¿ DESIGNATION OF AGENT FOR SERVICE.
It shall be the duty of every carrier subject to this Act to des-
ignate in writing an agent in the District of Columbia, upon whom
service of all notices and process and all orders, decisions, and re-
quirements of the Commission may be made for and on behalf of
said carrier in any proceeding or suit pending before the Commis-
sion, and to file such designation in the office of the secretary of
the Commission, which designation may from time to time be
changed by like writing similarly filed; and thereupon service of all
notices and process and orders, decisions, and requirements of the
Commission may be made upon such carrier by leaving a copy
thereof with such designated agent at his office or usual place of
residence in the District of Columbia, with like effect as if made
personally upon such carrier, and in default of such designation of
such agent, service of any notice or other process in any proceeding
before said Commission, or of any order, decision, or requirement
of the Commission, may be made by posting such notice, process,
order, requirement, or decision in the office of the secretary of the
Commission.
SEC. 414. ø47 U.S.C. 414¿ REMEDIES IN THIS ACT NOT EXCLUSIVE.
Nothing in this Act contained shall in any way abridge or alter
the remedies now existing at common law or by statute, but the
provisions of this Act are in addition to such remedies.
SEC. 415. ø47 U.S.C. 415¿ LIMITATIONS AS TO ACTIONS.
(a) All actions at law by carriers for recovery of their lawful
charges, or any part thereof, shall be begun, within two years from
the time the cause of action accrues, and not after.
(b) All complaints against carriers for the recovery of damages
not based on overcharges shall be filed with the Commission within
two years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after,
subject to subsection (d) of this section.
(c) For recovery of overcharges action at law shall be begun or
complaint filed with the Commission against carriers within two
years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not after, sub-
ject to subsection (d) of this section, except that if claim for the
overcharge has been presented in writing to the carrier within the
two-year period of limitation said period shall be extended to in-
clude two years from the time notice in writing is given by the car-
rier to the claimant of disallowance of the claim, or any part or
parts thereof, specified in the notice.
(d) If on or before expiration of the period of limitation in sub-
section (b) or (c) a carrier begins action under subsection (a) for re-
covery of lawful charges in respect of the same service, or, without
beginning action, collects charges in respect of that service, said pe-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00302 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
303 Sec. 502COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
riod of limitation shall be extended to include ninety days from the
time such action is begun or such charges are collected by the car-
rier.
(e) The cause of action in respect of the transmission of a mes-
sage shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to accrue
upon delivery or tender of delivery thereof by the carrier, and not
after.
(f) A petition for the enforcement of an order of the Commis-
sion for the payment of money shall be filed in the district court
or the State court within one year from the date of the order, and
not after.
(g) The term ‘‘overcharges’’ as used in this section shall be
deemed to mean charges for services in excess of those applicable
thereto under the schedules of charges lawfully on file with the
Commission.
SEC. 416. ø47 U.S.C. 416¿ PROVISIONS RELATING TO ORDERS.
(a) Every order of the Commission shall be forthwith served
upon the designated agent of the carrier in the city of Washington
or in such other manner as may be provided by law.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the Commission
is hereby authorized to suspend or modify its orders upon such no-
tice and in such manner as it shall deem proper.
(c) It shall be the duty of every person, its agents and employ-
ees, and any receiver or trustee thereof, to observe and comply with
such orders so long as the same shall remain in effect.
TITLE V—PENAL PROVISIONS—
FORFEITURES
SEC. 501. ø47 U.S.C. 501¿ GENERAL PENALTY.
Any person who willfully and knowingly does or causes or suf-
fers to be done any act, matter, or thing, in this Act prohibited or
declared to be unlawful, or who willfully and knowingly omits or
fails to do any act, matter, or thing in this Act required to be done,
or willfully and knowingly causes or suffers such omission or fail-
ure, shall upon conviction thereof, be punished for such offense, for
which no penalty (other than a forfeiture) is provided in this Act,
by a fine of not more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for a term
not exceeding one year, or both; except that any person, having
been once convicted of an offense punishable under this section,
who is subsequently convicted of violating any provision of this Act
punishable under this section, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $10,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years, or both.
SEC. 502. ø47 U.S.C. 502¿ VIOLATION OF RULES, REGULATIONS, AND SO
FORTH.
Any person who willfully and knowingly violates any rule, regula-
tion, restriction, or condition made or imposed by the Commission
under authority of this Act, or any rule, regulation, restriction, or
condition made or imposed by any international radio or wire com-
munications treaty or convention, or regulations annexed thereto,
to which the United States is or may hereafter become a party,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00303 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
304Sec. 503 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
shall, in addition to any other penalties provided by law, be pun-
ished, upon conviction thereof, by a fine of not more than $500 for
each and every day during which such offense occurs.
SEC. 503. ø47 U.S.C. 503¿ FORFEITURES IN CASES OF REBATES AND
OFFSETS.
(a) Any person who shall deliver messages for interstate or for-
eign transmission to any carrier, or for whom as sender or receiver,
any such carrier shall transmit any interstate or foreign wire or
radio communication, who shall knowingly by employee, agent, offi-
cer, or otherwise, directly or indirectly, by or through any means
or device whatsoever, receive or accept from such common carrier
any sum of money or any other valuable consideration as a rebate
or offset against the regular charges for transmission of such mes-
sages as fixed by the schedules of charges provided for in this Act,
shall in addition to any other penalty provided by this Act forfeit
to the United States a sum of money three times the amount of
money so received or accepted and three times the value of any
other consideration so received or accepted, to be ascertained by
the trial court; and in the trial of said action all such rebates or
other considerations so received or accepted for a period of six
years prior to the commencement of the action, may be included
therein, and the amount recovered shall be three times the total
amount of money, or three times the total value of such consider-
ation, so received or accepted, or both, as the case may be.
(b)(1) Any person who is determined by the Commission, in ac-
cordance with paragraph (3) or (4) of this subsection, to have—
(A) willfully or repeatedly failed to comply substantially
with the terms and conditions of any license, permit, certifi-
cate, or other instrument or authorization issued by the Com-
mission;
(B) willfully or repeatedly failed to comply with any of the
provisions of this Act or of any rule, regulation, or order issued
by the Commission under this Act or under any treaty, conven-
tion, or other agreement to which the United States is a party
and which is binding upon the United States;
(C) violated any provision of section 317(c) or 508(a) of this
Act; or
(D) violated any provision of section 1304, 1343, 1464, or
2252 of title 18, United States Code;
shall be liable to the United States for a forfeiture penalty. A for-
feiture penalty under this subsection shall be in addition to any
other penalty provided for by this Act; except that this subsection
shall not apply to any conduct which is subject to forfeiture under
title II, part II or III of title III, or section 506 of this Act.
(2)(A) If the violator is (i) a broadcast station licensee or per-
mittee, (ii) a cable television operator, or (iii) an applicant for any
broadcast or cable television operator license, permit, certificate, or
other instrument or authorization issued by the Commission, the
amount of any forfeiture penalty determined under this section
shall not exceed $25,000 for each violation or each day of a con-
tinuing violation, except that the amount assessed for any con-
tinuing violation shall not exceed a total of $250,000 for any single
act or failure to act described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00304 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
305 Sec. 503COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
50 Margin of subparagraph (F) so in law.
(B) If the violator is a common carrier subject to the provisions
of this Act or an applicant for any common carrier license, permit,
certificate, or other instrument of authorization issued by the Com-
mission, the amount of any forfeiture penalty determined under
this subsection shall not exceed $100,000 for each violation or each
day of a continuing violation, except that the amount assessed for
any continuing violation shall not exceed a total of $1,000,000 for
any single act or failure to act described in paragraph (1) of this
subsection.
(C) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), if the violator is—
(i)(I) a broadcast station licensee or permittee; or
(II) an applicant for any broadcast license, permit, certifi-
cate, or other instrument or authorization issued by the Com-
mission; and
(ii) determined by the Commission under paragraph (1) to
have broadcast obscene, indecent, or profane language, the
amount of any forfeiture penalty determined under this sub-
section shall not exceed $325,000 for each violation or each day
of a continuing violation, except that the amount assessed for
any continuing violation shall not exceed a total of $3,000,000
for any single act or failure to act.
(D) In any case not covered in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C),
the amount of any forfeiture penalty determined under this sub-
section shall not exceed $10,000 for each violation or each day of
a continuing violation, except that the amount assessed for any
continuing violation shall not exceed a total of $75,000 for any sin-
gle act or failure to act described in paragraph (1) of this sub-
section.
(E) The amount of such forfeiture penalty shall be assessed by
the Commission, or its designee, by written notice. In determining
the amount of such a forfeiture penalty, the Commission or its des-
ignee shall take into account the nature, circumstances, extent, and
gravity of the violation and, with respect to the violator, the degree
of culpability, any history of prior offenses, ability to pay, and such
other matters as justice may require.
(F) 50 Subject to paragraph (5) of this section, if the viola-
tor is a manufacturer or service provider subject to the require-
ments of section 255, 716, or 718, and is determined by the
Commission to have violated any such requirement, the manu-
facturer or provider shall be liable to the United States for a
forfeiture penalty of not more than $100,000 for each violation
or each day of a continuing violation, except that the amount
assessed for any continuing violation shall not exceed a total
of $1,000,000 for any single act or failure to act.
(3)(A) At the discretion of the Commission, a forfeiture penalty
may be determined against a person under this subsection after no-
tice and an opportunity for a hearing before the Commission or an
administrative law judge thereof in accordance with section 554 of
title 5, United States Code. Any person against whom a forfeiture
penalty is determined under this paragraph may obtain review
thereof pursuant to section 402(a).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00305 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
306Sec. 503 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) If any person fails to pay an assessment of a forfeiture pen-
alty determined under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, after it
has become a final and unappealable order or after the appropriate
court has entered final judgment in favor of the Commission, the
Commission shall refer the matter to the Attorney General of the
United States, who shall recover the amount assessed in any ap-
propriate district court of the United States. In such action, the va-
lidity and appropriateness of the final order imposing the forfeiture
penalty shall not be subject to review.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, no
forfeiture penalty shall be imposed under this subsection against
any person unless and until—
(A) the Commission issues a notice of apparent liability, in
writing, with respect to such person;
(B) such notice has been received by such person, or until
the Commission has sent such notice to the last known address
of such person, by registered or certified mail; and
(C) such person is granted an opportunity to show, in writ-
ing, within such reasonable period of time as the Commission
prescribes by rule or regulation, why no such forfeiture penalty
should be imposed.
Such a notice shall (i) identify each specific provision, term, and
condition of any Act, rule, regulation, order, treaty, convention, or
other agreement, license, permit, certificate, instrument, or author-
ization which such person apparently violated or with which such
person apparently failed to comply; (ii) set forth the nature of the
act or omission charged against such person and the facts upon
which such charge is based; and (iii) state the date on which such
conduct occurred. Any forfeiture penalty determined under this
paragraph shall be recoverable pursuant to section 504(a) of this
Act. (5) No forfeiture liability shall be determined under this sub-
section against any person, if such person does not hold a license,
permit, certificate, or other authorization issued by the Commis-
sion, and if such person is not an applicant for a license, permit,
certificate, or other authorization issued by the Commission, un-
less, prior to the notice required by paragraph (3) of this subsection
or the notice of apparent liability required by paragraph (4) of this
subsection, such person (A) is sent a citation of the violation
charged; (B) is given a reasonable opportunity for a personal inter-
view with an official of the Commission, at the field office of the
Commission which is nearest to such person’s place of residence;
and (C) subsequently engages in conduct of the type described in
such citation. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply,
however, if the person involved is engaging in activities for which
a license, permit, certificate, or other authorization is required, or
is a cable television system operator, if the person involved is
transmitting on frequencies assigned for use in a service in which
individual station operation is authorized by rule pursuant to sec-
tion 307(e), or in the case of violations of section 303(q), if the per-
son involved is a nonlicensee tower owner who has previously re-
ceived notice of the obligations imposed by section 303(q) from the
Commission or the permittee or licensee who uses that tower.
Whenever the requirements of this paragraph are satisfied with re-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00306 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
307 Sec. 504COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
spect to a paricular person, such person shall not be entitled to re-
ceive any additional citation of the violation charged, with respect
to any conduct of the type described in the citation sent under this
paragraph.
(6) No forfeiture penalty shall be determined or imposed
against any person under this subsection if—
(A) such person holds a broadcast station license issued
under title III of this Act and if the violation charged oc-
curred—
(i) more than 1 year prior to the date of issuance of
the required notice or notice of apparent liability; or
(ii) prior to the date of commencement of the current
term of such license,
whichever is earlier; or
(B) such person does not hold a broadcast station license
issued under title III of this Act and if the violation charged
occurred more than 1 year prior to the date of issuance of the
required notice or notice of apparent liability.
For purposes of this paragraph, ‘‘date of commencement of the cur-
rent term of such license’’ means the date of commencement of the
last term of license for which the licensee has been granted a li-
cense by the Commission. A separate license term shall not be
deemed to have commenced as a result of continuing a license in
effect under section 307(c) pending decision on an application for
renewal of the license.
SEC. 504. ø47 U.S.C. 504¿ PROVISIONS RELATING TO FORFEITURES.
(a) The forfeitures provided for in this Act shall be payable into
the Treasury of the United States, and shall be recoverable, except
as otherwise provided with respect to a forfeiture penalty deter-
mined under section 503(b)(3) of this Act, in a civil suit in the
name of the United States brought in the district where the person
or carrier has its principal operating office or in any district
through which the line or system of the carrier runs: Provided,
That any suit for the recovery of a forfeiture imposed pursuant to
the provisions of this Act shall be a trial de novo: Provided further,
That in the case of forfeiture by a ship, said forfeiture may also be
recoverable by way of libel in any district in which such ship shall
arrive or depart. Such forfeitures shall be in addition to any other
general or specific penalties herein provided. It shall be the duty
of the various district attorneys, under the direction of the Attor-
ney General of the United States, to prosecute for the recovery of
forfeitures under this Act. The costs and expenses of such prosecu-
tions shall be paid from the appropriation for the expenses of the
courts of the United States.
(b) The forfeitures imposed by title II, parts II and III of title
III, and sections 503(b) and 506 of this Act shall be subject to re-
mission or mitigation by the Commission, under such regulations
and methods of ascertaining the facts as may seem to it advisable,
and, if suit has been instituted, the Attorney General, upon request
of the Commission, shall direct the discontinuance of any prosecu-
tion to recover such forfeitures: Provided, however, That no for-
feiture shall be remitted or mitigated after determination by a
court of competent jurisdiction.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00307 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
308Sec. 505 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(c) In any case where the Commission issues a notice of appar-
ent liability looking toward the imposition of a forfeiture under this
Act, that fact shall not be used, in any other proceeding before the
Commission, to the prejudice of the person to whom such notice
was issued, unless (i) the forfeiture has been paid, or (ii) a court
of competent jurisdiction has ordered payment of such forfeiture,
and such order has become final.
SEC. 505. ø47 U.S.C. 505¿ VENUE OF OFFENSES.
The trial of any offense under this Act shall be in the district
in which it is committed; or if the offense is committed upon the
high seas, or out of the jurisdiction of any particular State or dis-
trict, the trial shall be in the district where the offender may be
found or into which he shall be first brought. Whenever the offense
is begun in one jurisdiction and completed in another it may be
dealt with, inquired of, tried, determined, and punished in either
jurisdiction in the same manner as if the offense had been actually
and wholly committed therein.
SEC. 506. ø47 U.S.C. 507¿ VIOLATION OF GREAT LAKES AGREEMENT.
(a) Any vessel of the United States that is navigated in viola-
tion of the provisions of the Great Lakes Agreement or the rules
and regulations of the Commission made in pursuance thereof and
any vessel of a foreign country that is so navigated on waters
under the jurisdiction of the United States shall forfeit to the
United States the sum of $500 recoverable by way of suit or libel.
Each day during which such navigation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(b) Every willful failure on the part of the master of a vessel
of the United States to enforce or to comply with the provisions of
the Great Lakes Agreement or the rules and regulations of the
Commission made in pursuance thereof shall cause him to forfeit
to the United States the sum of $100.
SEC. 507. ø47 U.S.C. 508¿ DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN PAYMENTS.
(a) Subject to subsection (d), any employee of a radio station
who accepts or agrees to accept from any person (other than such
station), or any person (other than such station) who pays or agrees
to pay such employee, any money, service or other valuable consid-
eration for the broadcast of any matter over such station shall, in
advance of such broadcast, disclose the fact of such acceptance or
agreement to such station.
(b) Subject to subsection (d), any person who, in connection
with the production or preparation of any program or program mat-
ter which is intended for broadcasting over any radio station, ac-
cepts or agrees to accept, or pays or agrees to pay, any money,
service or other valuable consideration for the inclusion of any mat-
ter as a part of such program or program matter, shall, in advance
of such broadcast, disclose the fact of such acceptance or payment
or agreement to the payee’s employer, or to the person for which
such program or program matter is being produced, or to the li-
censee of such station over which such program is broadcast.
(c) Subject to subsection (d), any person who supplies to any
other person any program or program matter which is intended for
broadcasting over any radio station shall, in advance of such broad-
cast, disclose to such other person any information of which he has
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00308 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
309 Sec. 508COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
knowledge, or which has been disclosed to him, as to any money,
service or other valuable consideration which any person has paid
or accepted, or has agreed to pay or accept, for the inclusion of any
matter as a part of such program or program matter.
(d) The provisions of this section requiring the disclosure of in-
formation shall not apply in any case where, because of a waiver
made by the Commission under section 317(d), an announcement
is not required to be made under section 317.
(e) The inclusion in the program of the announcement required
by section 317 shall constitute the disclosure required by this sec-
tion.
(f) The term ‘‘service or other valuable consideration’’ as used
in this section shall not include any service or property furnished
without charge or at a nominal charge for use on, or in connection
with, a broadcast, or for use on a program which is intended for
broadcasting over any radio station, unless it is so furnished in
consideration for an identification in such broadcast or in such pro-
gram of any person, product, service, trademark, or brand name be-
yond an identification which is reasonably related to the use of
such service or property in such broadcast or such program.
(g) Any person who violates any provision of this section shall,
for each such violation, be fined not more than $10,000 or impris-
oned not more than one year, or both.
SEC. 508. ø47 U.S.C. 509¿ PROHIBITED PRACTICES IN CASE OF CON-
TESTS OF INTELLECTUAL KNOWLEDGE, INTELLECTUAL
SKILL, OR CHANCE.
(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to deceive
the listening or viewing public—
(1) To supply to any contestant in a purportedly bona fide
contest of intellectual knowledge or intellectual skill any spe-
cial and secret assistance whereby the outcome of such contest
will be in whole or in part prearranged or predetermined.
(2) By means of persuasion, bribery, intimidation, or other-
wise, to induce or cause any contestant in a purportedly bona
fide contest of intellectual knowledge or intellectual skill to re-
frain in any manner from using or displaying his knowledge or
skill in such contest, whereby the outcome thereof will be in
whole or in part prearranged or predetermined.
(3) To engage in any artifice or scheme for the purpose of
prearranging or predetermining in whole or in part the out-
come of a purportedly bona fide contest of intellectual knowl-
edge, intellectual skill, or chance.
(4) To produce or participate in the production for broad-
casting of, to broadcast or participate in the broadcasting of, to
offer to a licensee for broadcasting, or to sponsor, any radio
program, knowing or having reasonable ground for believing
that, in connection with a purportedly bona fide contest of in-
tellectual knowledge, intellectual skill, or chance constituting
any part of such program, any person has done or is going to
do any act or thing referred to in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of
this subsection.
(5) To conspire with any other person or persons to do any
act or thing prohibited by paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00309 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
310Sec. 510 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
51 Public Law 96–507, 94 Stat. 2747, Dec. 8, 1980, struck out sec. 506 and redesignated secs.
507–509 as secs. 506–508, respectively.
subsection, if one or more of such persons do any act to effect
the object of such conspiracy.
(b) For the purpose of this section—
(1) The term ‘‘contest’’ means any contest broadcast by a
radio station in connection with which any money or any other
thing of value is offered as a prize or prizes to be paid or pre-
sented by the program sponsor or by any other person or per-
sons, as announced in the course of the broadcast.
(2) The term ‘‘the listening or viewing public’’ means those
members of the public who, with the aid of radio receiving sets,
listen to or view programs broadcast by radio stations.
(c) Whoever violates subsection (a) shall be fined not more than
$10,000 or imprisoned not more than one year, or both.
øSEC. 509¿ 51
SEC. 510. ø47 U.S.C. 510¿ FORFEITURE OF COMMUNICATIONS DEVICES.
(a) Any electronic, electromagnetic, radio frequency, or similar
device, or component thereof, used, sent, carried, manufactured, as-
sembled, possessed, offered for sale, sold, or advertised with willful
and knowing intent to violate section 301 or 302, or rules pre-
scribed by the Commission under such sections, may be seized and
forfeited to the United States.
(b) Any property subject to forfeiture to the United States
under this section may be seized by the Attorney General of the
United States upon process issued pursuant to the supplemental
rules for certain admiralty and maritime claims by any district
court of the United States having jurisdiction over the property, ex-
cept that seizure without such process may be made if the seizure
is incident to a lawful arrest or search.
(c) All provisions of law relating to—
(1) the seizure, summary and judicial forfeiture, and con-
demnation of property for violation of the customs laws;
(2) the disposition of such property or the proceeds from
the sale thereof;
(3) the remission or mitigation of such forfeitures; and
(4) the compromise of claims with respect to such forfeit-
ures;
shall apply to seizures and forfeitures incurred, or alleged to
have been incurred, under the provisions of this section, insofar as
applicable and not inconsistent with the provisions of this section,
except that such seizures and forfeitures shall be limited to the
communications device, devices, or components thereof.
(d) Whenever property is forfeited under this section, the At-
torney General of the United States may forward it to the Commis-
sion or sell any forfeited property which is not harmful to the pub-
lic. The proceeds from any such sale shall be deposited in the gen-
eral fund of the Treasury of the United States.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00310 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
311 Sec. 511COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 511. ø47 U.S.C. 511¿ ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR PIRATE RADIO
BROADCASTING; ENFORCEMENT SWEEPS; REPORTING.
(a) INCREASED GENERAL PENALTY.—Any person who willfully
and knowingly does or causes or suffers to be done any pirate radio
broadcasting shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,000,000.
(b) VIOLATION OF THIS ACT, RULES, OR REGULATIONS.—Any
person who willfully and knowingly violates this Act or any rule,
regulation, restriction, or condition made or imposed by the Com-
mission under authority of this Act, or any rule, regulation, restric-
tion, or condition made or imposed by any international radio or
wire communications treaty or convention, or regulations annexed
thereto, to which the United States is party, relating to pirate radio
broadcasting shall, in addition to any other penalties provided by
law, be subject to a fine of not more than $100,000 for each day
during which such offense occurs, in accordance with the limit de-
scribed in subsection (a).
(c) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the date of
enactment of the PIRATE Act, and annually thereafter, the Com-
mission shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report summarizing
the implementation of this section and associated enforcement ac-
tivities for the previous fiscal year, which may include the efforts
by the Commission to enlist the cooperation of Federal, State, and
local law enforcement personnel (including United States attorneys
and the United States Marshals Service) for service of process, col-
lection of fines or forfeitures, seizures of equipment, and enforce-
ment of orders.
(d) ENFORCEMENT SWEEPS.—
(1) ANNUAL SWEEPS.—Not less than once each year, the
Commission shall assign appropriate enforcement personnel to
focus specific and sustained attention on the elimination of pi-
rate radio broadcasting within the top 5 radio markets identi-
fied as prevalent for such broadcasts. Such effort shall include
identifying, locating, and taking enforcement actions designed
to terminate such operations.
(2) ADDITIONAL MONITORING.—Within 6 months after con-
ducting the enforcement sweeps required by paragraph (1), the
Commission shall conduct monitoring sweeps to ascertain
whether the pirate radio broadcasting identified by enforce-
ment sweeps is continuing to broadcast and whether additional
pirate radio broadcasting is occurring.
(3) NO EFFECT ON REMAINING ENFORCEMENT.—Notwith-
standing paragraph (1), the Commission shall not decrease or
diminish the regular enforcement efforts targeted to pirate
radio broadcast stations for other times of the year.
(e) STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT AUTHORITY.—The Commis-
sion may not preempt any State or local law prohibiting pirate
radio broadcasting.
(f) REVISION OF COMMISSION RULES REQUIRED.—The Commis-
sion shall revise its rules to require that, absent good cause, in any
case alleging a violation of subsection (a) or (b), the Commission
shall proceed directly to issue a notice of apparent liability without
first issuing a notice of unlicensed operation.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00311 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
312Sec. 601 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
52 Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934 was added by the Cable Communications Policy
Act of 1984, Public Law 98–549, 98 Stat. 2780, Oct. 30, 1984. That Act also contained the fol-
lowing provisions:
JURISDICTION
SEC. 13. (a) * * *
(b) The provisions of this Act and amendments made by this Act shall not be construed to
affect any jurisdiction the Federal Communications Commission may have under the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 with respect to any communication by wire or radio (other than cable serv-
ice, as defined in section 602(5) of such Act) which is provided through a cable system, or per-
sons or facilities engaged in such communications.
* * * * * * *
EFFECTIVE DATE
S EC. 19. * * *
(b) Nothing in section 623 or 624 of the Communications Act of 1934, as added by this Act,
shall be construed to allow a franchising authority, or a State or any political subdivision of
a State, to require a cable operator to restore, retier, or reprice any cable service which was
lawfully eliminated, retiered, or repriced as of September 26, 1984.
(g) PIRATE RADIO BROADCASTING DATABASE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days after the date of
the enactment of this section, and semi-annually thereafter,
the Commission shall publish a database in a clear and legible
format of all licensed radio stations operating in the AM and
FM bands. The database shall be easily accessible from the
Commission home page through a direct link. The database
shall include the following information:
(A) Each licensed station, listed by the assigned fre-
quency, channel number, or Commission call letters.
(B) All entities that have received a notice of unli-
censed operation, notice of apparent liability, or forfeiture
order issued by the Commission.
(2) CLEAR IDENTIFICATION.—The Commission shall clearly
identify in the database—
(A) each licensed station as a station licensed by the
Commission; and
(B) each entity described in paragraph (1)(B) as oper-
ating without a Commission license or authorization.
(h) DEFINITION OF PIRATE RADIO BROADCASTING.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘pirate radio broadcasting’’ means the transmission
of communications on spectrum frequencies between 535 and 1705
kilohertz, inclusive, or 87.7 and 108 megahertz, inclusive, without
a license issued by the Commission, but does not include unli-
censed operations in compliance with part 15 of title 47, Code of
Federal Regulations.
TITLE VI—CABLE COMMUNICATIONS 52
PART I—GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 601. ø47 U.S.C. 521¿ PURPOSES.
The purposes of this title are to—
(1) establish a national policy concerning cable communica-
tions;
(2) establish franchise procedures and standards which en-
courage the growth and development of cable systems and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00312 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
313 Sec. 602COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
which assure that cable systems are responsive to the needs
and interests of the local community;
(3) establish guidelines for the exercise of Federal, State,
and local authority with respect to the regulation of cable sys-
tems;
(4) assure that cable communications provide and are en-
couraged to provide the widest possible diversity of information
sources and services to the public;
(5) establish an orderly process for franchise renewal
which protects cable operators against unfair denials of re-
newal where the operator’s past performance and proposal for
future performance meet the standards established by this
title; and
(6) promote competition in cable communications and mini-
mize unnecessary regulation that would impose an undue eco-
nomic burden on cable systems.
SEC. 602. ø47 U.S.C. 522¿ DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of this title—
(1) the term ‘‘activated channels’’ means those channels
engineered at the headend of a cable system for the provision
of services generally available to residential subscribers of the
cable system, regardless of whether such services actually are
provided, including any channel designated for public, edu-
cational, or governmental use;
(2) the term ‘‘affiliate’’, when used in relation to any per-
son, means another person who owns or controls, is owned or
controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with,
such person;
(3) the term ‘‘basic cable service’’ means any service tier
which includes the retransmission of local television broadcast
signals;
(4) the terms ‘‘cable channel’’ or ‘‘channel’’ means a portion
of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum which is used in a
cable system and which is capable of delivering a television
channel (as television channel is defined by the Commission by
regulation);
(5) the term ‘‘cable operator’’ means any person or group
of persons (A) who provides cable service over a cable system
and directly or through one or more affiliates owns a signifi-
cant interest in such cable system, or (B) who otherwise con-
trols or is responsible for, through any arrangement, the man-
agement and operation of such a cable system;
(6) the term ‘‘cable service’’ means—
(A) the one-way transmission to subscribers of (i) video
programming, or (ii) other programming service, and
(B) subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for
the selection or use of such video programming or other
programming service;
(7) the term ‘‘cable system’’ means a facility, consisting of
a set of closed transmission paths and associated signal gen-
eration, reception, and control equipment that is designed to
provide cable service which includes video programming and
which is provided to multiple subscribers within a community,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00313 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
314Sec. 602 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
53 This compilation reflects the amendment made by section 302(b)(2)(A) of P.L. 104–104 (110
Stat. 124), even though that amendment strikes ‘‘, or (D)’’ rather than the ‘‘; or (D)’’ that appears
in the law.
but such term does not include (A) a facility that serves only
to retransmit the television signals of 1 or more television
broadcast stations; (B) a facility that serves subscribers with-
out using any public right-of-way; (C) a facility of a common
carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions
of title II of this Act, except that such facility shall be consid-
ered a cable system (other than for purposes of section 621(c))
to the extent such facility is used in the transmission of video
programming directly to subscribers, unless the extent of such
use is solely to provide interactive on-demand services; (D) 53
an open video system that complies with section 653 of this
title; or (E) any facilities of any electric utility used solely for
operating its electric utility systems;
(8) the term ‘‘Federal agency’’ means any agency of the
United States, including the Commission;
(9) the term ‘‘franchise’’ means an initial authorization, or
renewal thereof (including a renewal of an authorization which
has been granted subject to section 626), issued by a fran-
chising authority, whether such authorization is designated as
a franchise, permit, license, resolution, contract, certificate,
agreement, or otherwise, which authorizes the construction or
operation of a cable system;
(10) the term ‘‘franchising authority’’ means any govern-
mental entity empowered by Federal, State, or local law to
grant a franchise;
(11) the term ‘‘grade B contour’’ means the field strength
of a television broadcast station computed in accordance with
regulations promulgated by the Commission;
(12) the term ‘‘interactive on-demand services’’ means a
service providing video programming to subscribers over
switched networks on an on-demand, point-to-point basis, but
does not include services providing video programming
prescheduled by the programming provider;
(13) the term ‘‘multichannel video programming dis-
tributor’’ means a person such as, but not limited to, a cable
operator, a multichannel multipoint distribution service, a di-
rect broadcast satellite service, or a television receive-only sat-
ellite program distributor, who makes available for purchase,
by subscribers or customers, multiple channels of video pro-
gramming;
(14) the term ‘‘other programming service’’ means informa-
tion that a cable operator makes available to all subscribers
generally;
(15) the term ‘‘person’’ means an individual, partnership,
association, joint stock company, trust, corporation, or govern-
mental entity;
(16) the term ‘‘public, educational, or governmental access
facilities’’ means—
(A) channel capacity designated for public, edu-
cational, or governmental use; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00314 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
315 Sec. 611COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) facilities and equipment for the use of such chan-
nel capacity;
(17) the term ‘‘service tier’’ means a category of cable serv-
ice or other services provided by a cable operator and for which
a separate rate is charged by the cable operator;
(18) the term ‘‘State’’ means any State, or political subdivi-
sion, or agency thereof;
(19) the term ‘‘usable activated channels’’ means activated
channels of a cable system, except those channels whose use
for the distribution of broadcast signals would conflict with
technical and safety regulations as determined by the Commis-
sion; and
(20) the term ‘‘video programming’’ means programming
provided by, or generally considered comparable to program-
ming provided by, a television broadcast station.
PART II—USE OF CABLE CHANNELS AND
CABLE OWNERSHIP RESTRICTIONS
SEC. 611. ø47 U.S.C. 531¿ CABLE CHANNELS FOR PUBLIC, EDU-
CATIONAL, OR GOVERNMENTAL USE.
(a) A franchising authority may establish requirements in a
franchise with respect to the designation or use of channel capacity
for public, educational, or governmental use only to the extent pro-
vided in this section.
(b) A franchising authority may in its request for proposals re-
quire as part of a franchise, and may require as part of a cable op-
erator’s proposal for a franchise renewal, subject to section 626,
that channel capacity be designated for public, educational, or gov-
ernmental use, and channel capacity on institutional networks be
designated for educational or governmental use, and may require
rules and procedures for the use of the channel capacity designated
pursuant to this section.
(c) A franchising authority may enforce any requirement in any
franchise regarding the providing or use of such channel capacity.
Such enforcement authority includes the authority to enforce any
provisions of the franchise for services, facilities, or equipment pro-
posed by the cable operator which relate to public, educational, or
governmental use of channel capacity, whether or not required by
the franchising authority pursuant to subsection (b).
(d) In the case of any franchise under which channel capacity
is designated under subsection (b), the franchising authority shall
prescribe—
(1) rules and procedures under which the cable operator is
permitted to use such channel capacity for the provision of
other services if such channel capacity is not being used for the
purposes designated, and
(2) rules and procedures under which such permitted use
shall cease.
(e) Subject to section 624(d), a cable operator shall not exercise
any editorial control over any public, educational, or governmental
use of channel capacity provided pursuant to this section, except a
cable operator may refuse to transmit any public access program
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00315 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
316Sec. 612 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
or portion of a public access program which contains obscenity, in-
decency, or nudity.
(f) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘institutional net-
work’’ means a communication network which is constructed or op-
erated by the cable operator and which is generally available only
to subscribers who are not residential subscribers.
SEC. 612. ø47 U.S.C. 532¿ CABLE CHANNELS FOR COMMERCIAL USE.
(a) The purpose of this section is to promote competition in the
delivery of diverse sources of video programming and to assure that
the widest possible diversity of information sources are made avail-
able to the public from cable systems in a manner consistent with
growth and development of cable systems.
(b)(1) A cable operator shall designate channel capacity for
commercial use by persons unaffiliated with the operator in accord-
ance with the following requirements:
(A) An operator of any cable system with 36 or more (but
not more than 54) activated channels shall designate 10 per-
cent of such channels which are not otherwise required for use
(or the use of which is not prohibited) by Federal law or regu-
lation.
(B) An operator of any cable system with 55 or more (but
not more than 100) activated channels shall designate 15 per-
cent of such channels which are not otherwise required for use
(or the use of which is not prohibited) by Federal law or regu-
lation.
(C) An operator of any cable system with more than 100
activated channels shall designate 15 percent of all such chan-
nels.
(D) An operator of any cable system with fewer than 36 ac-
tivated channels shall not be required to designate channel ca-
pacity for commercial use by persons unaffiliated with the op-
erator, unless the cable system is required to provide such
channel capacity under the terms of a franchise in effect on the
date of the enactment of this title.
(E) An operator of any cable system in operation on the
date of the enactment of this title shall not be required to re-
move any service actually being provided on July 1, 1984, in
order to comply with this section, but shall make channel ca-
pacity available for commercial use as such capacity becomes
available until such time as the cable operator is in full compli-
ance with this section.
(2) Any Federal agency, State, or franchising authority may
not require any cable system to designate channel capacity for com-
mercial use by unaffiliated persons in excess of the capacity speci-
fied in paragraph (1), except as otherwise provided in this section.
(3) A cable operator may not be required, as part of a request
for proposals or as part of a proposal for renewal, subject to section
626, to designate channel capacity for any use (other than commer-
cial use by unaffiliated persons under this section) except as pro-
vided in sections 611 and 637, but a cable operator may offer in a
franchise, or proposal for renewal thereof, to provide, consistent
with applicable law, such capacity for other than commercial use
by such persons.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00316 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
317 Sec. 612COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(4) A cable operator may use any unused channel capacity des-
ignated pursuant to this section until the use of such channel ca-
pacity is obtained, pursuant to a written agreement, by a person
unaffiliated with the operator.
(5) For the purposes of this section, the term ‘‘commercial use’’
means the provision of video programming, whether or not for prof-
it. (6) Any channel capacity which has been designated for public,
educational, or governmental use may not be considered as des-
ignated under this section for commercial use for purpose of this
section.
(c)(1) If a person unaffiliated with the cable operator seeks to
use channel capacity designated pursuant to subsection (b) for com-
mercial use, the cable operator shall establish, consistent with the
purpose of this section and with rules prescribed by the Commis-
sion under paragraph (4), the price, terms, and conditions of such
use which are at least sufficient to assure that such use will not
adversely affect the operation, financial condition, or market devel-
opment of the cable system.
(2) A cable operator shall not exercise any editorial control over
any video programming provided pursuant to this section, or in any
other way consider the content of such programming, except that
a cable operator may refuse to transmit any leased access program
or portion of a leased access program which contains obscenity, in-
decency, or nudity and may consider such content to the minimum
extent necessary to establish a reasonable price for the commercial
use of designated channel capacity by an unaffiliated person.
(3) Any cable system channel designated in accordance with
this section shall not be used to provide a cable service that is
being provided over such system on the date of the enactment of
this title, if the provision of such programming is intended to avoid
the purpose of this section.
(4)(A) The Commission shall have the authority to—
(i) determine the maximum reasonable rates that a cable
operator may establish pursuant to paragraph (1) for commer-
cial use of designated channel capacity, including the rate
charged for the billing of rates to subscribers and for the collec-
tion of revenue from subscribers by the cable operator for such
use; (ii) establish reasonable terms and conditions for such use,
including those for billing and collection; and
(iii) establish procedures for the expedited resolution of
disputes concerning rates or carriage under this section.
(B) Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this para-
graph, the Commission shall establish rules for determining max-
imum reasonable rates under subparagraph (A)(i), for establishing
terms and conditions under subparagraph (A)(ii), and for providing
procedures under subparagraph (A)(iii).
(d) Any person aggrieved by the failure or refusal of a cable op-
erator to make channel capacity available for use pursuant to this
section may bring an action in the district court of the United
States for the judicial district in which the cable system is located
to compel that such capacity be made available. If the court finds
that the channel capacity sought by such person has not been made
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00317 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
318Sec. 612 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
available in accordance with this section, or finds that the price,
terms, or conditions established by the cable operator are unrea-
sonable, the court may order such system to make available to such
person the channel capacity sought, and further determine the ap-
propriate price, terms, or conditions for such use consistent with
subsection (c), and may award actual damages if it deems such re-
lief appropriate. In any such action, the court shall not consider
any price, term, or condition established between an operator and
an affiliate for comparable services.
(e)(1) Any person aggrieved by the failure or refusal of a cable
operator to make channel capacity available pursuant to this sec-
tion may petition the Commission for relief under this subsection
upon a showing of prior adjudicated violations of this section.
Records of previous adjudications resulting in a court determina-
tion that the operator has violated this section shall be considered
as sufficient for the showing necessary under this subsection. If the
Commission finds that the channel capacity sought by such person
has not been made available in accordance with this section, or
that the price, terms, or conditions established by such system are
unreasonable under subsection (c), the Commission shall, by rule
or order, require such operator to make available such channel ca-
pacity under price, terms, and conditions consistent with subsection
(c). (2) In any case in which the Commission finds that the prior
adjudicated violations of this section constitute a pattern or prac-
tice of violations by an operator, the Commission may also estab-
lish any further rule or order necessary to assure that the operator
provides the diversity of information sources required by this sec-
tion.(3) In any case in which the Commission finds that the prior
adjudicated violations of this section constitute a pattern or prac-
tice of violations by any person who is an operator of more than
one cable system, the Commission may also establish any further
rule or order necessary to assure that such person provides the di-
versity of information sources required by this section.
(f) In any action brought under this section in any Federal dis-
trict court or before the Commission, there shall be a presumption
that the price, terms, and conditions for use of channel capacity
designated pursuant to subsection (b) are reasonable and in good
faith unless shown by clear and convincing evidence to the con-
trary.
(g) Notwithstanding sections 621(c) and 623(a), at such time as
cable systems with 36 or more activated channels are available to
70 percent of households within the United States and are sub-
scribed to by 70 percent of the households to which such systems
are available, the Commission may promulgate any additional
rules necessary to provide diversity of information sources. Any
rules promulgated by the Commission pursuant to this subsection
shall not preempt authority expressly granted to franchising au-
thorities under this title.
(h) Any cable service offered pursuant to this section shall not
be provided, or shall be provided subject to conditions, if such cable
service in the judgment of the franchising authority or the cable
operator is obscene, or is in conflict with community standards in
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00318 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
319 Sec. 612COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
that it is lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent or is otherwise unpro-
tected by the Constitution of the United States. This subsection
shall permit a cable operator to enforce prospectively a written and
published policy of prohibiting programming that the cable oper-
ator reasonably believes describes or depicts sexual or excretory ac-
tivities or organs in a patently offensive manner as measured by
contemporary community standards.
(i)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (b) and (c),
a cable operator required by this section to designate channel ca-
pacity for commercial use may use any such channel capacity for
the provision of programming from a qualified minority program-
ming source or from any qualified educational programming source,
whether or not such source is affiliated with the cable operator.
The channel capacity used to provide programming from a qualified
minority programming source or from any qualified educational
programming source pursuant to this subsection may not exceed 33
percent of the channel capacity designated pursuant to this section.
No programming provided over a cable system on July 1, 1990,
may qualify as minority programming or educational programming
on that cable system under this subsection.
(2) For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘qualified minor-
ity programming source’’ means a programming source which de-
votes substantially all of its programming to coverage of minority
viewpoints, or to programming directed at members of minority
groups, and which is over 50 percent minority-owned, as the term
‘‘minority’’ is defined in section 309(i)(3)(C)(ii).
(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘qualified edu-
cational programming source’’ means a programming source which
devotes substantially all of its programming to educational or in-
structional programming that promotes public understanding of
mathematics, the sciences, the humanities, and the arts and has a
documented annual expenditure on programming exceeding
$15,000,000. The annual expenditure on programming means all
annual costs incurred by the programming source to produce or ac-
quire programs which are scheduled to be televised, and specifi-
cally excludes marketing, promotion, satellite transmission and
operational costs, and general administrative costs.
(4) Nothing in this subsection shall substitute for the require-
ments to carry qualified noncommercial educational television sta-
tions as specified under section 615.
(j)(1) Within 120 days following the date of the enactment of
this subsection, the Commission shall promulgate regulations de-
signed to limit the access of children to indecent programming, as
defined by Commission regulations, and which cable operators have
not voluntarily prohibited under subsection (h) by—
(A) requiring cable operators to place on a single channel
all indecent programs, as identified by program providers, in-
tended for carriage on channels designated for commercial use
under this section;
(B) requiring cable operators to block such single channel
unless the subscriber requests access to such channel in writ-
ing; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00319 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
320Sec. 613 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(C) requiring programmers to inform cable operators if the
program would be indecent as defined by Commission regula-
tions.
(2) Cable operators shall comply with the regulations promul-
gated pursuant to paragraph (1).
SEC. 613. ø47 U.S.C. 533¿ OWNERSHIP RESTRICTIONS.
(a) It shall be unlawful for a cable operator to hold a license
for multichannel multipoint distribution service, or to offer satellite
master antenna television service separate and apart from any
franchised cable service, in any portion of the franchise area served
by that cable operator’s cable system. The Commission—
(1) shall waive the requirements of this paragraph for all
existing multichannel multipoint distribution services and sat-
ellite master antenna television services which are owned by a
cable operator on the date of enactment of this paragraph;
(2) may waive the requirements of this paragraph to the
extent the Commission determines is necessary to ensure that
all significant portions of a franchise area are able to obtain
video programming; and
(3) shall not apply the requirements of this subsection to
any cable operator in any franchise area in which a cable oper-
ator is subject to effective competition as determined under
section 623(l).
øSubsection (b) repealed by section 302(b)(1) of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996 (P.L. 104–104), 110 Stat. 124.¿
(c) The Commission may prescribe rules with respect to the
ownership or control of cable systems by persons who own or con-
trol other media of mass communications which serve the same
community served by a cable system.
(d) Any State or franchising authority may not prohibit the
ownership or control of a cable system by any person because of
such person’s ownership or control of any other media of mass com-
munications or other media interests. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prevent any State or franchising authority from
prohibiting the ownership or control of a cable system in a jurisdic-
tion by any person (1) because of such person’s ownership or con-
trol of any other cable system in such jurisdiction; or (2) in cir-
cumstances in which the State or franchising authority determines
that the acquisition of such a cable system may eliminate or reduce
competition in the delivery of cable service in such jurisdiction.
(e)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), a State or franchising authority
may hold any ownership interest in any cable system.
(2) Any State or franchising authority shall not exercise any
editorial control regarding the content of any cable service on a
cable system in which such governmental entity holds ownership
interest (other than programming on any channel designated for
educational or governmental use), unless such control is exercised
through an entity separate from the franchising authority.
(f)(1) In order to enhance effective competition, the Commission
shall, within one year after the date of enactment of the Cable Tel-
evision Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, conduct
a proceeding—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00320 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
321 Sec. 614COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(A) to prescribe rules and regulations establishing reason-
able limits on the number of cable subscribers a person is au-
thorized to reach through cable systems owned by such person,
or in which such person has an attributable interest;
(B) to prescribe rules and regulations establishing reason-
able limits on the number of channels on a cable system that
can be occupied by a video programmer in which a cable oper-
ator has an attributable interest; and
(C) to consider the necessity and appropriateness of impos-
ing limitations on the degree to which multichannel video pro-
gramming distributors may engage in the creation or produc-
tion of video programming.
(2) In prescribing rules and regulations under paragraph (1),
the Commission shall, among other public interest objectives—
(A) ensure that no cable operator or group of cable opera-
tors can unfairly impede, either because of the size of any indi-
vidual operator or because of joint actions by a group of opera-
tors of sufficient size, the flow of video programming from the
video programmer to the consumer;
(B) ensure that cable operators affiliated with video pro-
grammers do not favor such programmers in determining car-
riage on their cable systems or do not unreasonably restrict the
flow of the video programming of such programmers to other
video distributors;
(C) take particular account of the market structure, owner-
ship patterns, and other relationships of the cable television in-
dustry, including the nature and market power of the local
franchise, the joint ownership of cable systems and video pro-
grammers, and the various types of non-equity controlling in-
terests;
(D) account for any efficiencies and other benefits that
might be gained through increased ownership or control;
(E) make such rules and regulations reflect the dynamic
nature of the communications marketplace;
(F) not impose limitations which would bar cable operators
from serving previously unserved rural areas; and
(G) not impose limitations which would impair the devel-
opment of diverse and high quality video programming.
(g) This section shall not apply to prohibit any combination of
any interests held by any person on July 1, 1984, to the extent of
the interests so held as of such date, if the holding of such interests
was not inconsistent with any applicable Federal or State law or
regulations in effect on that date.
(h) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘media of mass com-
munications’’ shall have the meaning given such term under sec-
tion 309(i)(3)(C)(i) of this Act.
SEC. 614. ø47 U.S.C. 534¿ CARRIAGE OF LOCAL COMMERCIAL TELE-
VISION SIGNALS.
(a) CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS.—Each cable operator shall carry,
on the cable system of that operator, the signals of local commer-
cial television stations and qualified low power stations as provided
by this section. Carriage of additional broadcast television signals
on such system shall be at the discretion of such operator, subject
to section 325(b).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00321 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
322Sec. 614 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(b) SIGNALS REQUIRED.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—(A) A cable operator of a cable system
with 12 or fewer usable activated channels shall carry the sig-
nals of at least three local commercial television stations, ex-
cept that if such a system has 300 or fewer subscribers, it shall
not be subject to any requirements under this section so long
as such system does not delete from carriage by that system
any signal of a broadcast television station.
(B) A cable operator of a cable system with more than 12
usable activated channels shall carry the signals of local com-
mercial television stations, up to one-third of the aggregate
number of usable activated channels of such system.
(2) SELECTION OF SIGNALS.—Whenever the number of local
commercial television stations exceeds the maximum number
of signals a cable system is required to carry under paragraph
(1), the cable operator shall have discretion in selecting which
such stations shall be carried on its cable system, except that—
(A) under no circumstances shall a cable operator
carry a qualified low power station in lieu of a local com-
mercial television station; and
(B) if the cable operator elects to carry an affiliate of
a broadcast network (as such term is defined by the Com-
mission by regulation), such cable operator shall carry the
affiliate of such broadcast network whose city of license
reference point, as defined in section 76.53 of title 47, Code
of Federal Regulations (in effect on January 1, 1991), or
any successor regulation thereto, is closest to the principal
headend of the cable system.
(3) CONTENT TO BE CARRIED.—(A) A cable operator shall
carry in its entirety, on the cable system of that operator, the
primary video, accompanying audio, and line 21 closed caption
transmission of each of the local commercial television stations
carried on the cable system and, to the extent technically fea-
sible, program-related material carried in the vertical blanking
interval or on subcarriers. Retransmission of other material in
the vertical blanking internal or other nonprogram-related ma-
terial (including teletext and other subscription and advertiser-
supported information services) shall be at the discretion of the
cable operator. Where appropriate and feasible, operators may
delete signal enhancements, such as ghost-canceling, from the
broadcast signal and employ such enhancements at the system
headend or headends.
(B) The cable operator shall carry the entirety of the pro-
gram schedule of any television station carried on the cable
system unless carriage of specific programming is prohibited,
and other programming authorized to be substituted, under
section 76.67 or subpart F of part 76 of title 47, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 1991), or any suc-
cessor regulations thereto.
(4) SIGNAL QUALITY.—
(A) NONDEGRADATION; TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS.—
The signals of local commercial television stations that a
cable operator carries shall be carried without material
degradation. The Commission shall adopt carriage stand-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00322 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
323 Sec. 614COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ards to ensure that, to the extent technically feasible, the
quality of signal processing and carriage provided by a
cable system for the carriage of local commercial television
stations will be no less than that provided by the system
for carriage of any other type of signal.
(B) ADVANCED TELEVISION.—At such time as the Com-
mission prescribes modifications of the standards for tele-
vision broadcast signals, the Commission shall initiate a
proceeding to establish any changes in the signal carriage
requirements of cable television systems necessary to en-
sure cable carriage of such broadcast signals of local com-
mercial television stations which have been changed to
conform with such modified standards.
(5) DUPLICATION NOT REQUIRED.—Notwithstanding para-
graph (1), a cable operator shall not be required to carry the
signal of any local commercial television station that substan-
tially duplicates the signal of another local commercial tele-
vision station which is carried on its cable system, or to carry
the signals of more than one local commercial television station
affiliated with a particular broadcast network (as such term is
defined by regulation). If a cable operator elects to carry on its
cable system a signal which substantially duplicates the signal
of another local commercial television station carried on the
cable system, or to carry on its system the signals of more than
one local commercial television station affiliated with a par-
ticular broadcast network, all such signals shall be counted to-
ward the number of signals the operator is required to carry
under paragraph (1).
(6) CHANNEL POSITIONING.—Each signal carried in fulfill-
ment of the carriage obligations of a cable operator under this
section shall be carried on the cable system channel number on
which the local commercial television station is broadcast over
the air, or on the channel on which it was carried on July 19,
1985, or on the channel on which it was carried on January 1,
1992, at the election of the station, or on such other channel
number as is mutually agreed upon by the station and the
cable operator. Any dispute regarding the positioning of a local
commercial television station shall be resolved by the Commis-
sion.
(7) SIGNAL AVAILABILITY.—Signals carried in fulfillment of
the requirements of this section shall be provided to every sub-
scriber of a cable system. Such signals shall be viewable via
cable on all television receivers of a subscriber which are con-
nected to a cable system by a cable operator or for which a
cable operator provides a connection. If a cable operator au-
thorizes subscribers to install additional receiver connections,
but does not provide the subscriber with such connections, or
with the equipment and materials for such connections, the op-
erator shall notify such subscribers of all broadcast stations
carried on the cable system which cannot be viewed via cable
without a converter box and shall offer to sell or lease such a
converter box to such subscribers at rates in accordance with
section 623(b)(3).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00323 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
324Sec. 614 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(8) IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNALS CARRIED.—A cable operator
shall identify, upon request by any person, the signals carried
on its system in fulfillment of the requirements of this section.
(9) NOTIFICATION.—A cable operator shall provide written
notice to a local commercial television station at least 30 days
prior to either deleting from carriage or repositioning that sta-
tion. The notification provisions of this paragraph shall not be
used to undermine or evade the channel positioning or carriage
requirements imposed upon cable operators under this section.
(10) COMPENSATION FOR CARRIAGE.—A cable operator shall
not accept or request monetary payment or other valuable con-
sideration in exchange either for carriage of local commercial
television stations in fulfillment of the requirements of this
section or for the channel positioning rights provided to such
stations under this section, except that—
(A) any such station may be required to bear the costs
associated with delivering a good quality signal or a
baseband video signal to the principal headend of the cable
system;
(B) a cable operator may accept payments from sta-
tions which would be considered distant signals under sec-
tion 111 of title 17, United States Code, as indemnification
for any increased copyright liability resulting from car-
riage of such signal; and
(C) a cable operator may continue to accept monetary
payment or other valuable consideration in exchange for
carriage or channel positioning of the signal of any local
commercial television station carried in fulfillment of the
requirements of this section, through, but not beyond, the
date of expiration of an agreement thereon between a cable
operator and a local commercial television station entered
into prior to June 26, 1990.
(c) LOW POWER STATION CARRIAGE OBLIGATION.—
(1) REQUIREMENT.—If there are not sufficient signals of
full power local commercial television stations to fill the chan-
nels set aside under subsection (b)—
(A) a cable operator of a cable system with a capacity
of 35 or fewer usable activated channels shall be required
to carry one qualified low power station; and
(B) a cable operator of a cable system with a capacity
of more than 35 usable activated channels shall be re-
quired to carry two qualified low power stations.
(2) USE OF PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL, OR GOVERNMENTAL
CHANNELS.—A cable operator required to carry more than one
signal of a qualified low power station under this subsection
may do so, subject to approval by the franchising authority
pursuant to section 611, by placing such additional station on
public, educational, or governmental channels not in use for
their designated purposes.
(d) REMEDIES.—
(1) COMPLAINTS BY BROADCAST STATIONS.—Whenever a
local commercial television station believes that a cable oper-
ator has failed to meet its obligations under this section, such
station shall notify the operator, in writing, of the alleged fail-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00324 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
325 Sec. 614COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ure and identify its reasons for believing that the cable oper-
ator is obligated to carry the signal of such station or has oth-
erwise failed to comply with the channel positioning or repo-
sitioning or other requirements of this section. The cable oper-
ator shall, within 30 days of such written notification, respond
in writing to such notification and either commence to carry
the signal of such station in accordance with the terms re-
quested or state its reasons for believing that it is not obligated
to carry such signal or is in compliance with the channel posi-
tioning and repositioning and other requirements of this sec-
tion. A local commercial television station that is denied car-
riage or channel positioning or repositioning in accordance
with this section by a cable operator may obtain review of such
denial by filing a complaint with the Commission. Such com-
plaint shall allege the manner in which such cable operator
has failed to meet its obligations and the basis for such allega-
tions.
(2) OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND.—The Commission shall af-
ford such cable operator an opportunity to present data and ar-
guments to establish that there has been no failure to meet its
obligations under this section.
(3) REMEDIAL ACTIONS; DISMISSAL.—Within 120 days after
the date a complaint is filed, the Commission shall determine
whether the cable operator has met its obligations under this
section. If the Commission determines that the cable operator
has failed to meet such obligations, the Commission shall order
the cable operator to reposition the complaining station or, in
the case of an obligation to carry a station, to commence car-
riage of the station and to continue such carriage for at least
12 months. If the Commission determines that the cable oper-
ator has fully met the requirements of this section, it shall dis-
miss the complaint.
(e) INPUT SELECTOR SWITCH RULES ABOLISHED.—No cable op-
erator shall be required—
(1) to provide or make available any input selector switch
as defined in section 76.5(mm) of title 47, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations, or any comparable device; or
(2) to provide information to subscribers about input selec-
tor switches or comparable devices.
(f) REGULATIONS BY COMMISSION.—Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall, following
a rulemaking proceeding, issue regulations implementing the re-
quirements imposed by this section. Such implementing regulations
shall include necessary revisions to update section 76.51 of title 47
of the Code of Federal Regulations.
(g) SALES PRESENTATIONS AND PROGRAM LENGTH COMMER-
CIALS.— (1) CARRIAGE PENDING PROCEEDING.—Pending the outcome
of the proceeding under paragraph (2), nothing in this Act
shall require a cable operator to carry on any tier, or prohibit
a cable operator from carrying on any tier, the signal of any
commercial television station or video programming service
that is predominantly utilized for the transmission of sales
presentations or program length commercials.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00325 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
326Sec. 614 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) PROCEEDING CONCERNING CERTAIN STATIONS.—Within
270 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Com-
mission, notwithstanding prior proceedings to determine
whether broadcast television stations that are predominantly
utilized for the transmission of sales presentations or program
length commercials are serving the public interest, conven-
ience, and necessity, shall complete a proceeding in accordance
with this paragraph to determine whether broadcast television
stations that are predominantly utilized for the transmission of
sales presentations or program length commercials are serving
the public interest, convenience, and necessity. In conducting
such proceeding, the Commission shall provide appropriate no-
tice and opportunity for public comment. The Commission shall
consider the viewing of such stations, the level of competing
demands for the spectrum allocated to such stations, and the
role of such stations in providing competition to nonbroadcast
services offering similar programming. In the event that the
Commission concludes that one or more of such stations are
serving the public interest, convenience, and necessity, the
Commission shall qualify such stations as local commercial tel-
evision stations for purposes of subsection (a). In the event
that the Commission concludes that one or more of such sta-
tions are not serving the public interest, convenience, and ne-
cessity, the Commission shall allow the licensees of such sta-
tions a reasonable period within which to provide different pro-
gramming, and shall not deny such stations a renewal expect-
ancy solely because their programming consisted predomi-
nantly of sales presentations or program length commercials.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—
(1) LOCAL COMMERCIAL TELEVISION STATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this section, the
term ‘‘local commercial television station’’ means any full
power television broadcast station, other than a qualified
noncommercial educational television station within the
meaning of section 615(l)(1), licensed and operating on a
channel regularly assigned to its community by the Com-
mission that, with respect to a particular cable system, is
within the same television market as the cable system.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘local commercial tele-
vision station’’ shall not include—
(i) low power television stations, television trans-
lator stations, and passive repeaters which operate
pursuant to part 74 of title 47, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, or any successor regulations thereto;
(ii) a television broadcast station that would be
considered a distant signal under section 111 of title
17, United States Code, if such station does not agree
to indemnify the cable operator for any increased copy-
right liability resulting from carriage on the cable sys-
tem; or
(iii) a television broadcast station that does not
deliver to the principal headend of a cable system ei-
ther a signal level of ¥45dBm for UHF signals or
¥49dBm for VHF signals at the input terminals of the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00326 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
327 Sec. 614COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
signal processing equipment, if such station does not
agree to be responsible for the costs of delivering to
the cable system a signal of good quality or a
baseband video signal.
(C) MARKET DETERMINATIONS.—(i) For purposes of this
section, a broadcasting station’s market shall be deter-
mined by the Commission by regulation or order using,
where available, commercial publications which delineate
television markets based on viewing patterns, except that,
following a written request, the Commission may, with re-
spect to a particular television broadcast station, include
additional communities within its television market or ex-
clude communities from such station’s television market to
better effectuate the purposes of this section. In consid-
ering such requests, the Commission may determine that
particular communities are part of more than one tele-
vision market.
(ii) In considering requests filed pursuant to clause (i),
the Commission shall afford particular attention to the
value of localism by taking into account such factors as—
(I) whether the station, or other stations located
in the same area, have been historically carried on the
cable system or systems within such community or on
the satellite carrier or carriers serving such commu-
nity;
(II) whether the television station provides cov-
erage or other local service to such community;
(III) whether modifying the market of the tele-
vision station would promote consumers’ access to tele-
vision broadcast station signals that originate in their
State of residence;
(IV) whether any other television station that is
eligible to be carried by a cable system in such com-
munity in fulfillment of the requirements of this sec-
tion provides news coverage of issues of concern to
such community or provides carriage or coverage of
sporting and other events of interest to the commu-
nity; and
(V) evidence of viewing patterns in households
that subscribe and do not subscribe to the services of-
fered by multichannel video programming distributors
within the areas served by such multichannel video
programming distributors in such community.
(iii) A cable operator shall not delete from carriage the
signal of a commercial television station during the pend-
ency of any proceeding pursuant to this subparagraph.
(iv) Within 120 days after the date on which a request
is filed under this subparagraph (or 120 days after the
date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996,
if later), the Commission shall grant or deny the request.
(2) QUALIFIED LOW POWER STATION.—The term ‘‘qualified
low power station’’ means any television broadcast station con-
forming to the rules established for Low Power Television Sta-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00327 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
328Sec. 615 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tions contained in part 74 of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, only if—
(A) such station broadcasts for at least the minimum
number of hours of operation required by the Commission
for television broadcast stations under part 73 of title 47,
Code of Federal Regulations;
(B) such station meets all obligations and require-
ments applicable to television broadcast stations under
part 73 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, with re-
spect to the broadcast of nonentertainment programming;
programming and rates involving political candidates, elec-
tion issues, controversial issues of public importance, edi-
torials, and personal attacks; programming for children;
and equal employment opportunity; and the Commission
determines that the provision of such programming by
such station would address local news and informational
needs which are not being adequately served by full power
television broadcast stations because of the geographic dis-
tance of such full power stations from the low power sta-
tion’s community of license;
(C) such station complies with interference regulations
consistent with its secondary status pursuant to part 74 of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations;
(D) such station is located no more than 35 miles from
the cable system’s headend, and delivers to the principal
headend of the cable system an over-the-air signal of good
quality, as determined by the Commission;
(E) the community of license of such station and the
franchise area of the cable system are both located outside
of the largest 160 Metropolitan Statistical Areas, ranked
by population, as determined by the Office of Management
and Budget on June 30, 1990, and the population of such
community of license on such date did not exceed 35,000;
and (F) there is no full power television broadcast station
licensed to any community within the county or other po-
litical subdivision (of a State) served by the cable system.
Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to change the
secondary status of any low power station as provided in part
74 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the
date of enactment of this section.
SEC. 615. ø47 U.S.C. 535¿ CARRIAGE OF NONCOMMERCIAL EDU-
CATIONAL TELEVISION.
(a) CARRIAGE OBLIGATIONS.—In addition to the carriage re-
quirements set forth in section 614, each cable operator of a cable
system shall carry the signals of qualified noncommercial edu-
cational television stations in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
(b) REQUIREMENTS TO CARRY QUALIFIED STATIONS.—
(1) GENERAL REQUIREMENT TO CARRY EACH QUALIFIED STA-
TION.—Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3) and subsection (e),
each cable operator shall carry, on the cable system of that
cable operator, any qualified local noncommercial educational
television station requesting carriage.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00328 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
329 Sec. 615COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2)(A) SYSTEMS WITH 12 OR FEWER CHANNELS.—Notwith-
standing paragraph (1), a cable operator of a cable system with
12 or fewer usable activated channels shall be required to
carry the signal of one qualified local noncommercial edu-
cational television station; except that a cable operator of such
a system shall comply with subsection (c) and may, in its dis-
cretion, carry the signals of other qualified noncommercial edu-
cational television stations.
(B) In the case of a cable system described in subpara-
graph (A) which operates beyond the presence of any qualified
local noncommercial educational television station—
(i) the cable operator shall import and carry on that
system the signal of one qualified noncommercial edu-
cational television station;
(ii) the selection for carriage of such a signal shall be
at the election of the cable operator; and
(iii) in order to satisfy the requirements for carriage
specified in this subsection, the cable operator of the sys-
tem shall not be required to remove any other program-
ming service actually provided to subscribers on March 29,
1990; except that such cable operator shall use the first
channel available to satisfy the requirements of this sub-
paragraph.
(3) SYSTEMS WITH 13 TO 36 CHANNELS.—(A) Subject to sub-
section (c), a cable operator of a cable system with 13 to 36 us-
able activated channels—
(i) shall carry the signal of at least one qualified local
noncommercial educational television station but shall not
be required to carry the signals of more than three such
stations, and
(ii) may, in its discretion, carry additional such sta-
tions.
(B) In the case of a cable system described in this para-
graph which operates beyond the presence of any qualified
local noncommercial educational television station, the cable
operator shall import and carry on that system the signal of
at least one qualified noncommercial educational television sta-
tion to comply with subparagraph (A)(i).
(C) The cable operator of a cable system described in this
paragraph which carries the signal of a qualified local non-
commercial educational station affiliated with a State public
television network shall not be required to carry the signal of
any additional qualified local noncommercial educational tele-
vision stations affiliated with the same network if the pro-
gramming of such additional stations is substantially dupli-
cated by the programming of the qualified local noncommercial
educational television station receiving carriage.
(D) A cable operator of a system described in this para-
graph which increases the usable activated channel capacity of
the system to more than 36 channels on or after March 29,
1990, shall, in accordance with the other provisions of this sec-
tion, carry the signal of each qualified local noncommercial
educational television station requesting carriage, subject to
subsection (e).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00329 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
330Sec. 615 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(c) CONTINUED CARRIAGE OF EXISTING STATIONS.—Notwith-
standing any other provision of this section, all cable operators
shall continue to provide carriage to all qualified local noncommer-
cial educational television stations whose signals were carried on
their systems as of March 29, 1990. The requirements of this sub-
section may be waived with respect to a particular cable operator
and a particular such station, upon the written consent of the cable
operator and the station.
(d) PLACEMENT OF ADDITIONAL SIGNALS.—A cable operator re-
quired to add the signals of qualified local noncommercial edu-
cational television stations to a cable system under this section
may do so, subject to approval by the franchising authority pursu-
ant to section 611, by placing such additional stations on public,
educational, or governmental channels not in use for their des-
ignated purposes.
(e) SYSTEMS WITH MORE THAN 36 CHANNELS.—A cable oper-
ator of a cable system with a capacity of more than 36 usable acti-
vated channels which is required to carry the signals of three
qualified local noncommercial educational television stations shall
not be required to carry the signals of additional such stations the
programming of which substantially duplicates the programming
broadcast by another qualified local noncommercial educational tel-
evision station requesting carriage. Substantial duplication shall be
defined by the Commission in a manner that promotes access to
distinctive noncommercial educational television services.
(f) WAIVER OF NONDUPLICATION RIGHTS.—A qualified local non-
commercial educational television station whose signal is carried by
a cable operator shall not assert any network nonduplication rights
it may have pursuant to section 76.92 of title 47, Code of Federal
Regulations, to require the deletion of programs aired on other
qualified local noncommercial educational television stations whose
signals are carried by that cable operator.
(g) CONDITIONS OF CARRIAGE.—
(1) CONTENT TO BE CARRIED.—A cable operator shall re-
transmit in its entirety the primary video, accompanying
audio, and line 21 closed caption transmission of each qualified
local noncommercial educational television station whose sig-
nal is carried on the cable system, and, to the extent tech-
nically feasible, program-related material carried in the
vertical blanking interval, or on subcarriers, that may be nec-
essary for receipt of programming by handicapped persons or
for educational or language purposes. Retransmission of other
material in the vertical blanking interval or on subcarriers
shall be within the discretion of the cable operator.
(2) BANDWIDTH AND TECHNICAL QUALITY.—A cable operator
shall provide each qualified local noncommercial educational
television station whose signal is carried in accordance with
this section with bandwidth and technical capacity equivalent
to that provided to commercial television broadcast stations
carried on the cable system and shall carry the signal of each
qualified local noncommercial educational television station
without material degradation.
(3) CHANGES IN CARRIAGE.—The signal of a qualified local
noncommercial educational television station shall not be repo-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00330 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
331 Sec. 615COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
sitioned by a cable operator unless the cable operator, at least
30 days in advance of such repositioning, has provided written
notice to the station and all subscribers of the cable system.
For purposes of this paragraph, repositioning includes (A) as-
signment of a qualified local noncommercial educational tele-
vision station to a cable system channel number different from
the cable system channel number to which the station was as-
signed as of March 29, 1990, and (B) deletion of the station
from the cable system. The notification provisions of this para-
graph shall not be used to undermine or evade the channel po-
sitioning or carriage requirements imposed upon cable opera-
tors under this section.
(4) GOOD QUALITY SIGNAL REQUIRED.—Notwithstanding the
other provisions of this section, a cable operator shall not be
required to carry the signal of any qualified local noncommer-
cial educational television station which does not deliver to the
cable system’s principal headend a signal of good quality or a
baseband video signal, as may be defined by the Commission.
(5) CHANNEL POSITIONING.—Each signal carried in fulfill-
ment of the carriage obligations of a cable operator under this
section shall be carried on the cable system channel number on
which the qualified local noncommercial educational television
station is broadcast over the air, or on the channel on which
it was carried on July 19, 1985, at the election of the station,
or on such other channel number as is mutually agreed upon
by the station and the cable operator. Any dispute regarding
the positioning of a qualified local noncommercial educational
television station shall be resolved by the Commission.
(h) AVAILABILITY OF SIGNALS.—Signals carried in fulfillment of
the carriage obligations of a cable operator under this section shall
be available to every subscriber as part of the cable system’s lowest
priced service tier that includes the retransmission of local com-
mercial television broadcast signals.
(i) PAYMENT FOR CARRIAGE PROHIBITED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A cable operator shall not accept mone-
tary payment or other valuable consideration in exchange for
carriage of the signal of any qualified local noncommercial edu-
cational television station carried in fulfillment of the require-
ments of this section, except that such a station may be re-
quired to bear the cost associated with delivering a good qual-
ity signal or a baseband video signal to the principal headend
of the cable system.
(2) DISTANT SIGNAL EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding the pro-
visions of this section, a cable operator shall not be required
to add the signal of a qualified local noncommercial edu-
cational television station not already carried under the provi-
sion of subsection (c), where such signal would be considered
a distant signal for copyright purposes unless such station in-
demnifies the cable operator for any increased copyright costs
resulting from carriage of such signal.
(j) REMEDIES.—
(1) COMPLAINT.—Whenever a qualified local noncommer-
cial educational television station believes that a cable operator
of a cable system has failed to comply with the signal carriage
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00331 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
332Sec. 615 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
requirements of this section, the station may file a complaint
with the Commission. Such complaint shall allege the manner
in which such cable operator has failed to comply with such re-
quirements and state the basis for such allegations.
(2) OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND.—The Commission shall af-
ford such cable operator an opportunity to present data, views,
and arguments to establish that the cable operator has com-
plied with the signal carriage requirements of this section.
(3) REMEDIAL ACTIONS; DISMISSAL.—Within 120 days after
the date a complaint is filed under this subsection, the Com-
mission shall determine whether the cable operator has com-
plied with the requirements of this section. If the Commission
determines that the cable operator has failed to comply with
such requirements, the Commission shall state with particu-
larity the basis for such findings and order the cable operator
to take such remedial action as is necessary to meet such re-
quirements. If the Commission determines that the cable oper-
ator has fully complied with such requirements, the Commis-
sion shall dismiss the complaint.
(k) IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNALS.—A cable operator shall iden-
tify, upon request by any person, those signals carried in fulfill-
ment of the requirements of this section.
(l) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section—
(1) QUALIFIED NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL TELEVISION
STATION.—The term ‘‘qualified noncommercial educational tele-
vision station’’ means any television broadcast station which—
(A)(i) under the rules and regulations of the Commis-
sion in effect on March 29, 1990, is licensed by the Com-
mission as a noncommercial educational television broad-
cast station and which is owned and operated by a public
agency, nonprofit foundation, corporation, or association;
and (ii) has as its licensee an entity which is eligible to re-
ceive a community service grant, or any successor grant
thereto, from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, or
any successor organization thereto, on the basis of the for-
mula set forth in section 396(k)(6)(B); or
(B) is owned and operated by a municipality and
transmits predominantly noncommercial programs for edu-
cational purposes.
Such term includes (I) the translator of any noncommercial
educational television station with five watts or higher power
serving the franchise area, (II) a full-service station or trans-
lator if such station or translator is licensed to a channel re-
served for noncommercial educational use pursuant to section
73.606 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any suc-
cessor regulations thereto, and (III) such stations and trans-
lators operating on channels not so reserved as the Commis-
sion determines are qualified as noncommercial educational
stations.
(2) QUALIFIED LOCAL NONCOMMERCIAL EDUCATIONAL TELE-
VISION STATION.—The term ‘‘qualified local noncommercial edu-
cational television station’’ means a qualified noncommercial
educational television station—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00332 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
333 Sec. 617COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(A) which is licensed to a principal community whose
reference point, as defined in section 76.53 of title 47, Code
of Federal Regulations (as in effect on March 29, 1990), or
any successor regulations thereto, is within 50 miles of the
principal headend of the cable system; or
(B) whose Grade B service contour, as defined in sec-
tion 73.683(a) of such title (as in effect on March 29, 1990),
or any successor regulations thereto, encompasses the
principal headend of the cable system.
SEC. 616. ø47 U.S.C. 536¿ REGULATION OF CARRIAGE AGREEMENTS.
(a) REGULATIONS.—Within one year after the date of enactment
of this section, the Commission shall establish regulations gov-
erning program carriage agreements and related practices between
cable operators or other multichannel video programming distribu-
tors and video programming vendors. Such regulations shall—
(1) include provisions designed to prevent a cable operator
or other multichannel video programming distributor from re-
quiring a financial interest in a program service as a condition
for carriage on one or more of such operator’s systems;
(2) include provisions designed to prohibit a cable operator
or other multichannel video programming distributor from co-
ercing a video programming vendor to provide, and from retali-
ating against such a vendor for failing to provide, exclusive
rights against other multichannel video programming distribu-
tors as a condition of carriage on a system;
(3) contain provisions designed to prevent a multichannel
video programming distributor from engaging in conduct the
effect of which is to unreasonably restrain the ability of an un-
affiliated video programming vendor to compete fairly by dis-
criminating in video programming distribution on the basis of
affiliation or nonaffiliation of vendors in the selection, terms,
or conditions for carriage of video programming provided by
such vendors;
(4) provide for expedited review of any complaints made by
a video programming vendor pursuant to this section;
(5) provide for appropriate penalties and remedies for vio-
lations of this subsection, including carriage; and
(6) provide penalties to be assessed against any person fil-
ing a frivolous complaint pursuant to this section.
(b) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘video pro-
gramming vendor’’ means a person engaged in the production, cre-
ation, or wholesale distribution of video programming for sale.
SEC. 617. ø47 U.S.C. 537¿ SALES OF CABLE SYSTEMS.
A franchising authority shall, if the franchise requires fran-
chising authority approval of a sale or transfer, have 120 days to
act upon any request for approval of such sale or transfer that con-
tains or is accompanied by such information as is required in ac-
cordance with Commission regulations and by the franchising au-
thority. If the franchising authority fails to render a final decision
on the request within 120 days, such request shall be deemed
granted unless the requesting party and the franchising authority
agree to an extension of time.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00333 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
334Sec. 621 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
PART III—FRANCHISING AND REGULATION
SEC. 621. ø47 U.S.C. 541¿ GENERAL FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.
(a)(1) A franchising authority may award, in accordance with
the provisions of this title, 1 or more franchises within its jurisdic-
tion; except that a franchising authority may not grant an exclu-
sive franchise and may not unreasonably refuse to award an addi-
tional competitive franchise. Any applicant whose application for a
second franchise has been denied by a final decision of the fran-
chising authority may appeal such final decision pursuant to the
provisions of section 635 for failure to comply with this subsection.
(2) Any franchise shall be construed to authorize the construc-
tion of a cable system over public rights-of-way, and through ease-
ments, which is within the area to be served by the cable system
and which have been dedicated for compatible uses, except that in
using such easements the cable operator shall ensure—
(A) that the safety, functioning, and appearance of the
property and the convenience and the safety of other persons
not be adversely affected by the installation or construction of
facilities necessary for a cable system;
(B) that the cost of the installation, construction, oper-
ation, or removal of such facilities be borne by the cable oper-
ator or subscriber, or a combination of both; and
(C) that the owner of the property be justly compensated
by the cable operator for any damages caused by the installa-
tion, construction, operation, or removal of such facilities by
the cable operator.
(3) In awarding a franchise or franchises, a franchising author-
ity shall assure that access to cable service is not denied to any
group of potential residential cable subscribers because of the in-
come of the residents of the local area in which such group resides.
(4) In awarding a franchise, the franchising authority—
(A) shall allow the applicant’s cable system a reasonable
period of time to become capable of providing cable service to
all households in the franchise area;
(B) may require adequate assurance that the cable oper-
ator will provide adequate public, educational, and govern-
mental access channel capacity, facilities, or financial support;
and
(C) may require adequate assurance that the cable oper-
ator has the financial, technical, or legal qualifications to pro-
vide cable service.
(b)(1) Except to the extent provided in paragraph (2) and sub-
section (f), a cable operator may not provide cable service without
a franchise.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not require any person lawfully pro-
viding cable service without a franchise on July 1, 1984, to obtain
a franchise unless the franchising authority so requires.
(3)(A) If a cable operator or affiliate thereof is engaged in the
provision of telecommunications services—
(i) such cable operator or affiliate shall not be required to
obtain a franchise under this title for the provision of tele-
communications services; and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00334 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
335 Sec. 621COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) the provisions of this title shall not apply to such cable
operator or affiliate for the provision of telecommunications
services.
(B) A franchising authority may not impose any requirement
under this title that has the purpose or effect of prohibiting, lim-
iting, restricting, or conditioning the provision of a telecommuni-
cations service by a cable operator or an affiliate thereof.
(C) A franchising authority may not order a cable operator or
affiliate thereof—
(i) to discontinue the provision of a telecommunications
service, or
(ii) to discontinue the operation of a cable system, to the
extent such cable system is used for the provision of a tele-
communications service, by reason of the failure of such cable
operator or affiliate thereof to obtain a franchise or franchise
renewal under this title with respect to the provision of such
telecommunications service.
(D) Except as otherwise permitted by sections 611 and 612, a
franchising authority may not require a cable operator to provide
any telecommunications service or facilities, other than institu-
tional networks, as a condition of the initial grant of a franchise,
a franchise renewal, or a transfer of a franchise.
(c) Any cable system shall not be subject to regulation as a
common carrier or utility by reason of providing any cable service.
(d)(1) A State or the Commission may require the filing of in-
formational tariffs for any intrastate communications service pro-
vided by a cable system, other than cable service, that would be
subject to regulation by the Commission or any State if offered by
a common carrier subject in whole or in part, to title II of this Act.
Such informational tariffs shall specify the rates, terms, and condi-
tions for the provision of such service, including whether it is made
available to all subscribers generally, and shall take effect on the
date specified therein.
(2) Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect the author-
ity of any State to regulate any cable operator to the extent that
such operator provides any communication service other than cable
service, whether offered on a common carrier or private contract
basis.
(3) For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘‘State’’ has the
meaning given it in section 3.
(e) Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect the author-
ity of any State to license or otherwise regulate any facility or com-
bination of facilities which serves only subscribers in one or more
multiple unit dwellings under common ownership, control, or man-
agement and which does not use any public right-of-way.
(f) No provision of this Act shall be construed to—
(1) prohibit a local or municipal authority that is also, or
is affiliated with, a franchising authority from operating as a
multichannel video programming distributor in the franchise
area, notwithstanding the granting of one or more franchises
by such franchising authority; or
(2) require such local or municipal authority to secure a
franchise to operate as a multichannel video programming dis-
tributor.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00335 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
336Sec. 622 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 622. ø47 U.S.C. 542¿ FRANCHISE FEES.
(a) Subject to the limitation of subsection (b), any cable oper-
ator may be required under the terms of any franchise to pay a
franchise fee.
(b) For any twelve-month period, the franchise fees paid by a
cable operator with respect to any cable system shall not exceed 5
percent of such cable operator’s gross revenues derived in such pe-
riod from the operation of the cable system to provide cable serv-
ices. For purposes of this section, the 12-month period shall be the
12-month period applicable under the franchise for accounting pur-
poses. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit a franchising au-
thority and a cable operator from agreeing that franchise fees
which lawfully could be collected for any such 12-month period
shall be paid on a prepaid or deferred basis; except that the sum
of the fees paid during the term of the franchise may not exceed
the amount, including the time value of money, which would have
lawfully been collected if such fees had been paid per annum.
(c) Each cable operator may identify, consistent with the regu-
lations prescribed by the Commission pursuant to section 623, as
a separate line item on each regular bill of each subscriber, each
of the following:
(1) The amount of the total bill assessed as a franchise fee
and the identity of the franchising authority to which the fee
is paid.
(2) The amount of the total bill assessed to satisfy any re-
quirements imposed on the cable operator by the franchise
agreement to support public, educational, or governmental
channels or the use of such channels.
(3) The amount of any other fee, tax, assessment, or
charge of any kind imposed by any governmental authority on
the transaction between the operator and the subscriber.
(d) In any court action under subsection (c), the franchising au-
thority shall demonstrate that the rate structure reflects all costs
of the franchise fees.
(e) Any cable operator shall pass through to subscribers the
amount of any decrease in a franchise fee.
(f) A cable operator may designate that portion of a sub-
scriber’s bill attributable to the franchise fee as a separate item on
the bill.
(g) For the purposes of this section—
(1) the term ‘‘franchise fee’’ includes any tax, fee, or assess-
ment of any kind imposed by a franchising authority or other
governmental entity on a cable operator or cable subscriber, or
both, solely because of their status as such;
(2) the term ‘‘franchise fee’’ does not include—
(A) any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability
(including any such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on
both utilities and cable operators or their services but not
including a tax, fee, or assessment which is unduly dis-
criminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
(B) in the case of any franchise in effect on the date
of the enactment of this title, payments which are required
by the franchise to be made by the cable operator during
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00336 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
337 Sec. 623COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the term of such franchise for, or in support of the use of,
public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
(C) in the case of any franchise granted after such
date of enactment, capital costs which are required by the
franchise to be incurred by the cable operator for public,
educational, or governmental access facilities;
(D) requirements or charges incidental to the award-
ing or enforcing of the franchise, including payments for
bonds, security funds, letters of credit, insurance, indem-
nification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
(E) any fee imposed under title 17, United States
Code.
(h)(1) Nothing in this Act shall be construed to limit any au-
thority of a franchising authority to impose a tax, fee, or other as-
sessment of any kind on any person (other than a cable operator)
with respect to cable service or other communications service pro-
vided by such person over a cable system for which charges are as-
sessed to subscribers but not received by the cable operator.
(2) For any 12-month period, the fees paid by such person with
respect to any such cable service or other communications service
shall not exceed 5 percent of such person’s gross revenues derived
in such period from the provision of such service over the cable sys-
tem.
(i) Any Federal agency may not regulate the amount of the
franchise fees paid by a cable operator, or regulate the use of funds
derived from such fees, except as provided in this section.
SEC. 623. ø47 U.S.C. 543¿ REGULATION OF RATES.
(a) COMPETITION PREFERENCE; LOCAL AND FEDERAL REGULA-
TION.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—No Federal agency or State may regulate
the rates for the provision of cable service except to the extent
provided under this section and section 612. Any franchising
authority may regulate the rates for the provision of cable
service, or any other communications service provided over a
cable system to cable subscribers, but only to the extent pro-
vided under this section. No Federal agency, State, or fran-
chising authority may regulate the rates for cable service of a
cable system that is owned or operated by a local government
or franchising authority within whose jurisdiction that cable
system is located and that is the only cable system located
within such jurisdiction.
(2) PREFERENCE FOR COMPETITION.—If the Commission
finds that a cable system is subject to effective competition, the
rates for the provision of cable service by such system shall not
be subject to regulation by the Commission or by a State or
franchising authority under this section. If the Commission
finds that a cable system is not subject to effective competi-
tion—
(A) the rates for the provision of basic cable service
shall be subject to regulation by a franchising authority, or
by the Commission if the Commission exercises jurisdic-
tion pursuant to paragraph (6), in accordance with the reg-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00337 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
338Sec. 623 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ulations prescribed by the Commission under subsection
(b); and
(B) the rates for cable programming services shall be
subject to regulation by the Commission under subsection
(c).
(3) QUALIFICATION OF FRANCHISING AUTHORITY.—A fran-
chising authority that seeks to exercise the regulatory jurisdic-
tion permitted under paragraph (2)(A) shall file with the Com-
mission a written certification that—
(A) the franchising authority will adopt and admin-
ister regulations with respect to the rates subject to regu-
lation under this section that are consistent with the regu-
lations prescribed by the Commission under subsection (b);
(B) the franchising authority has the legal authority to
adopt, and the personnel to administer, such regulations;
and
(C) procedural laws and regulations applicable to rate
regulation proceedings by such authority provide a reason-
able opportunity for consideration of the views of inter-
ested parties.
(4) APPROVAL BY COMMISSION.—A certification filed by a
franchising authority under paragraph (3) shall be effective 30
days after the date on which it is filed unless the Commission
finds, after notice to the authority and a reasonable oppor-
tunity for the authority to comment, that—
(A) the franchising authority has adopted or is admin-
istering regulations with respect to the rates subject to
regulation under this section that are not consistent with
the regulations prescribed by the Commission under sub-
section (b);
(B) the franchising authority does not have the legal
authority to adopt, or the personnel to administer, such
regulations; or
(C) procedural laws and regulations applicable to rate
regulation proceedings by such authority do not provide a
reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views of in-
terested parties.
If the Commission disapproves a franchising authority’s certifi-
cation, the Commission shall notify the franchising authority of
any revisions or modifications necessary to obtain approval.
(5) REVOCATION OF JURISDICTION.—Upon petition by a
cable operator or other interested party, the Commission shall
review the regulation of cable system rates by a franchising
authority under this subsection. A copy of the petition shall be
provided to the franchising authority by the person filing the
petition. If the Commission finds that the franchising authority
has acted inconsistently with the requirements of this sub-
section, the Commission shall grant appropriate relief. If the
Commission, after the franchising authority has had a reason-
able opportunity to comment, determines that the State and
local laws and regulations are not in conformance with the reg-
ulations prescribed by the Commission under subsection (b),
the Commission shall revoke the jurisdiction of such authority.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00338 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
339 Sec. 623COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(6) EXERCISE OF JURISDICTION BY COMMISSION.—If the
Commission disapproves a franchising authority’s certification
under paragraph (4), or revokes such authority’s jurisdiction
under paragraph (5), the Commission shall exercise the fran-
chising authority’s regulatory jurisdiction under paragraph
(2)(A) until the franchising authority has qualified to exercise
that jurisdiction by filing a new certification that meets the re-
quirements of paragraph (3). Such new certification shall be ef-
fective upon approval by the Commission. The Commission
shall act to approve or disapprove any such new certification
within 90 days after the date it is filed.
(7) AGGREGATION OF EQUIPMENT COSTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall allow cable
operators, pursuant to any rules promulgated under sub-
section (b)(3), to aggregate, on a franchise, system, re-
gional, or company level, their equipment costs into broad
categories, such as converter boxes, regardless of the vary-
ing levels of functionality of the equipment within each
such broad category. Such aggregation shall not be per-
mitted with respect to equipment used by subscribers who
receive only a rate regulated basic service tier.
(B) REVISION TO COMMISSION RULES; FORMS.—Within
120 days of the date of enactment of the Telecommuni-
cations Act of 1996, the Commission shall issue revisions
to the appropriate rules and forms necessary to implement
subparagraph (A).
(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF BASIC SERVICE TIER RATE REGULA-
TIONS.— (1) COMMISSION OBLIGATION TO SUBSCRIBERS.—The Com-
mission shall, by regulation, ensure that the rates for the basic
service tier are reasonable. Such regulations shall be designed
to achieve the goal of protecting subscribers of any cable sys-
tem that is not subject to effective competition from rates for
the basic service tier that exceed the rates that would be
charged for the basic service tier if such cable system were
subject to effective competition.
(2) COMMISSION REGULATIONS.—Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, the Commission shall prescribe,
and periodically thereafter revise, regulations to carry out its
obligations under paragraph (1). In prescribing such regula-
tions, the Commission—
(A) shall seek to reduce the administrative burdens on
subscribers, cable operators, franchising authorities, and
the Commission;
(B) may adopt formulas or other mechanisms and pro-
cedures in complying with the requirements of subpara-
graph (A); and
(C) shall take into account the following factors:
(i) the rates for cable systems, if any, that are sub-
ject to effective competition;
(ii) the direct costs (if any) of obtaining, transmit-
ting, and otherwise providing signals carried on the
basic service tier, including signals and services car-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00339 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
340Sec. 623 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ried on the basic service tier pursuant to paragraph
(7)(B), and changes in such costs;
(iii) only such portion of the joint and common
costs (if any) of obtaining, transmitting, and otherwise
providing such signals as is determined, in accordance
with regulations prescribed by the Commission, to be
reasonably and properly allocable to the basic service
tier, and changes in such costs;
(iv) the revenues (if any) received by a cable oper-
ator from advertising from programming that is car-
ried as part of the basic service tier or from other con-
sideration obtained in connection with the basic serv-
ice tier;
(v) the reasonably and properly allocable portion
of any amount assessed as a franchise fee, tax, or
charge of any kind imposed by any State or local au-
thority on the transactions between cable operators
and cable subscribers or any other fee, tax, or assess-
ment of general applicability imposed by a govern-
mental entity applied against cable operators or cable
subscribers;
(vi) any amount required, in accordance with
paragraph (4), to satisfy franchise requirements to
support public, educational, or governmental channels
or the use of such channels or any other services re-
quired under the franchise; and
(vii) a reasonable profit, as defined by the Com-
mission consistent with the Commission’s obligations
to subscribers under paragraph (1).
(3) EQUIPMENT.—The regulations prescribed by the Com-
mission under this subsection shall include standards to estab-
lish, on the basis of actual cost, the price or rate for—
(A) installation and lease of the equipment used by
subscribers to receive the basic service tier, including a
converter box and a remote control unit and, if requested
by the subscriber, such addressable converter box or other
equipment as is required to access programming described
in paragraph (8); and
(B) installation and monthly use of connections for ad-
ditional television receivers.
(4) COSTS OF FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS.—The regulations
prescribed by the Commission under this subsection shall in-
clude standards to identify costs attributable to satisfying fran-
chise requirements to support public, educational, and govern-
mental channels or the use of such channels or any other serv-
ices required under the franchise.
(5) IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT.—The regulations
prescribed by the Commission under this subsection shall in-
clude additional standards, guidelines, and procedures con-
cerning the implementation and enforcement of such regula-
tions, which shall include—
(A) procedures by which cable operators may imple-
ment and franchising authorities may enforce the regula-
tions prescribed by the Commission under this subsection;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00340 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
341 Sec. 623COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) procedures for the expeditious resolution of dis-
putes between cable operators and franchising authorities
concerning the administration of such regulations;
(C) standards and procedures to prevent unreasonable
charges for changes in the subscriber’s selection of services
or equipment subject to regulation under this section,
which standards shall require that charges for changing
the service tier selected shall be based on the cost of such
change and shall not exceed nominal amounts when the
system’s configuration permits changes in service tier se-
lection to be effected solely by coded entry on a computer
terminal or by other similarly simple method; and
(D) standards and procedures to assure that sub-
scribers receive notice of the availability of the basic serv-
ice tier required under this section.
(6) NOTICE.—The procedures prescribed by the Commis-
sion pursuant to paragraph (5)(A) shall require a cable oper-
ator to provide 30 days’ advance notice to a franchising author-
ity of any increase proposed in the price to be charged for the
basic service tier.
(7) COMPONENTS OF BASIC TIER SUBJECT TO RATE REGULA-
TION.—
(A) MINIMUM CONTENTS.—Each cable operator of a
cable system shall provide its subscribers a separately
available basic service tier to which subscription is re-
quired for access to any other tier of service. Such basic
service tier shall, at a minimum, consist of the following:
(i) All signals carried in fulfillment of the require-
ments of sections 614 and 615.
(ii) Any public, educational, and governmental ac-
cess programming required by the franchise of the
cable system to be provided to subscribers.
(iii) Any signal of any television broadcast station
that is provided by the cable operator to any sub-
scriber, except a signal which is secondarily trans-
mitted by a satellite carrier beyond the local service
area of such station.
(B) PERMITTED ADDITIONS TO BASIC TIER.—A cable op-
erator may add additional video programming signals or
services to the basic service tier. Any such additional sig-
nals or services provided on the basic service tier shall be
provided to subscribers at rates determined under the reg-
ulations prescribed by the Commission under this sub-
section.
(8) BUY-THROUGH OF OTHER TIERS PROHIBITED.—
(A) PROHIBITION.—A cable operator may not require
the subscription to any tier other than the basic service
tier required by paragraph (7) as a condition of access to
video programming offered on a per channel or per pro-
gram basis. A cable operator may not discriminate be-
tween subscribers to the basic service tier and other sub-
scribers with regard to the rates charged for video pro-
gramming offered on a per channel or per program basis.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00341 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
342Sec. 623 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) EXCEPTION; LIMITATION.—The prohibition in sub-
paragraph (A) shall not apply to a cable system that, by
reason of the lack of addressable converter boxes or other
technological limitations, does not permit the operator to
offer programming on a per channel or per program basis
in the same manner required by subparagraph (A). This
subparagraph shall not be available to any cable operator
after—
(i) the technology utilized by the cable system is
modified or improved in a way that eliminates such
technological limitation; or
(ii) 10 years after the date of enactment of the
Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competi-
tion Act of 1992, subject to subparagraph (C).
(C) WAIVER.—If, in any proceeding initiated at the re-
quest of any cable operator, the Commission determines
that compliance with the requirements of subparagraph
(A) would require the cable operator to increase its rates,
the Commission may, to the extent consistent with the
public interest, grant such cable operator a waiver from
such requirements for such specified period as the Com-
mission determines reasonable and appropriate.
(c) REGULATION OF UNREASONABLE RATES.—
(1) COMMISSION REGULATIONS.—Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, the Commission shall, by regula-
tion, establish the following:
(A) criteria prescribed in accordance with paragraph
(2) for identifying, in individual cases, rates for cable pro-
gramming services that are unreasonable;
(B) fair and expeditious procedures for the receipt,
consideration, and resolution of complaints from any fran-
chising authority (in accordance with paragraph (3)) alleg-
ing that a rate for cable programming services charged by
a cable operator violates the criteria prescribed under sub-
paragraph (A), which procedures shall include the min-
imum showing that shall be required for a complaint to ob-
tain Commission consideration and resolution of whether
the rate in question is unreasonable; and
(C) the procedures to be used to reduce rates for cable
programming services that are determined by the Commis-
sion to be unreasonable and to refund such portion of the
rates or charges that were paid by subscribers after the fil-
ing of the first complaint filed with the franchising author-
ity under paragraph (3) and that are determined to be un-
reasonable.
(2) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In establishing the cri-
teria for determining in individual cases whether rates for
cable programming services are unreasonable under paragraph
(1)(A), the Commission shall consider, among other factors—
(A) the rates for similarly situated cable systems offer-
ing comparable cable programming services, taking into
account similarities in facilities, regulatory and govern-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00342 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
343 Sec. 623COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
mental costs, the number of subscribers, and other rel-
evant factors;
(B) the rates for cable systems, if any, that are subject
to effective competition;
(C) the history of the rates for cable programming
services of the system, including the relationship of such
rates to changes in general consumer prices;
(D) the rates, as a whole, for all the cable program-
ming, cable equipment, and cable services provided by the
system, other than programming provided on a per chan-
nel or per program basis;
(E) capital and operating costs of the cable system, in-
cluding the quality and costs of the customer service pro-
vided by the cable system; and
(F) the revenues (if any) received by a cable operator
from advertising from programming that is carried as part
of the service for which a rate is being established, and
changes in such revenues, or from other consideration ob-
tained in connection with the cable programming services
concerned.
(3) REVIEW OF RATE CHANGES.—The Commission shall re-
view any complaint submitted by a franchising authority after
the date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996
concerning an increase in rates for cable programming services
and issue a final order within 90 days after it receives such a
complaint, unless the parties agree to extend the period for
such review. A franchising authority may not file a complaint
under this paragraph unless, within 90 days after such in-
crease becomes effective it receives subscriber complaints.
(4) SUNSET OF UPPER TIER RATE REGULATION.—This sub-
section shall not apply to cable programming services provided
after March 31, 1999.
(d) UNIFORM RATE STRUCTURE REQUIRED.—A cable operator
shall have a rate structure, for the provision of cable service, that
is uniform throughout the geographic area in which cable service
is provided over its cable system. This subsection does not apply to
(1) a cable operator with respect to the provision of cable service
over its cable system in any geographic area in which the video
programming services offered by the operator in that area are sub-
ject to effective competition, or (2) any video programming offered
on a per channel or per program basis. Bulk discounts to multiple
dwelling units shall not be subject to this subsection, except that
a cable operator of a cable system that is not subject to effective
competition may not charge predatory prices to a multiple dwelling
unit. Upon a prima facie showing by a complainant that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that the discounted price is preda-
tory, the cable system shall have the burden of showing that its
discounted price is not predatory.
(e) DISCRIMINATION; SERVICES FOR THE HEARING IMPAIRED.—
Nothing in this title shall be construed as prohibiting any Federal
agency, State, or a franchising authority from—
(1) prohibiting discrimination among subscribers and po-
tential subscribers to cable service, except that no Federal
agency, State, or franchising authority may prohibit a cable op-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00343 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
344Sec. 623 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
erator from offering reasonable discounts to senior citizens or
other economically disadvantaged group discounts; or
(2) requiring and regulating the installation or rental of
equipment which facilitates the reception of cable service by
hearing impaired individuals.
(f) NEGATIVE OPTION BILLING PROHIBITED.—A cable operator
shall not charge a subscriber for any service or equipment that the
subscriber has not affirmatively requested by name. For purposes
of this subsection, a subscriber’s failure to refuse a cable operator’s
proposal to provide such service or equipment shall not be deemed
to be an affirmative request for such service or equipment.
(g) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The Commission shall, by
regulation, require cable operators to file with the Commission or
a franchising authority, as appropriate, within one year after the
date of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992 and annually thereafter, such financial in-
formation as may be needed for purposes of administering and en-
forcing this section.
(h) PREVENTION OF EVASIONS.—Within 180 days after the date
of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992, the Commission shall, by regulation, es-
tablish standards, guidelines, and procedures to prevent evasions,
including evasions that result from retiering, of the requirements
of this section and shall, thereafter, periodically review and revise
such standards, guidelines, and procedures.
(i) SMALL SYSTEM BURDENS.—In developing and prescribing
regulations pursuant to this section, the Commission shall design
such regulations to reduce the administrative burdens and cost of
compliance for cable systems that have 1,000 or fewer subscribers.
(j) RATE REGULATION AGREEMENTS.—During the term of an
agreement made before July 1, 1990, by a franchising authority
and a cable operator providing for the regulation of basic cable
service rates, where there was not effective competition under
Commission rules in effect on that date, nothing in this section (or
the regulations thereunder) shall abridge the ability of such fran-
chising authority to regulate rates in accordance with such an
agreement.
(k) REPORTS ON AVERAGE PRICES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall publish with its
report under section 13 statistical reports on the average rates
for basic cable service and other cable programming, and for
converter boxes, remote control units, and other equipment of
cable systems that the Commission has found are subject to ef-
fective competition under subsection (a)(2) compared with cable
systems that the Commission has found are not subject to such
effective competition.
(2) INCLUSION IN REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall include in its
report under paragraph (1) the aggregate average total
amount paid by cable systems in compensation under sec-
tion 325.
(B) FORM.—The Commission shall publish information
under this paragraph in a manner substantially similar to
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00344 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
345 Sec. 623COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the way other comparable information is published in such
report.
(l) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section—
(1) The term ‘‘effective competition’’ means that—
(A) fewer than 30 percent of the households in the
franchise area subscribe to the cable service of a cable sys-
tem;(B) the franchise area is—
(i) served by at least two unaffiliated multi-
channel video programming distributors each of which
offers comparable video programming to at least 50
percent of the households in the franchise area; and
(ii) the number of households subscribing to pro-
gramming services offered by multichannel video pro-
gramming distributors other than the largest multi-
channel video programming distributor exceeds 15
percent of the households in the franchise area;
(C) a multichannel video programming distributor op-
erated by the franchising authority for that franchise area
offers video programming to at least 50 percent of the
households in that franchise area; or
(D) a local exchange carrier or its affiliate (or any mul-
tichannel video programming distributor using the facili-
ties of such carrier or its affiliate) offers video program-
ming services directly to subscribers by any means (other
than direct-to-home satellite services) in the franchise area
of an unaffiliated cable operator which is providing cable
service in that franchise area, but only if the video pro-
gramming services so offered in that area are comparable
to the video programming services provided by the unaffili-
ated cable operator in that area.
(2) The term ‘‘cable programming service’’ means any video
programming provided over a cable system, regardless of serv-
ice tier, including installation or rental of equipment used for
the receipt of such video programming, other than (A) video
programming carried on the basic service tier, and (B) video
programming offered on a per channel or per program basis.
(m) SPECIAL RULES FOR SMALL COMPANIES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsections (a), (b), and (c) do not apply
to a small cable operator with respect to—
(A) cable programming services, or
(B) a basic service tier that was the only service tier
subject to regulation as of December 31, 1994,
in any franchise area in which that operator services 50,000 or
fewer subscribers.
(2) DEFINITION OF SMALL CABLE OPERATOR.—For purposes
of this subsection, the term ‘‘small cable operator’’ means a
cable operator that, directly or through an affiliate, serves in
the aggregate fewer than 1 percent of all subscribers in the
United States and is not affiliated with any entity or entities
whose gross annual revenues in the aggregate exceed
$250,000,000.
(n) TREATMENT OF PRIOR YEAR LOSSES.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section or of section 612, losses associated
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00345 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
346Sec. 624 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
with a cable system (including losses associated with the grant or
award of a franchise) that were incurred prior to September 4,
1992, with respect to a cable system that is owned and operated
by the original franchisee of such system shall not be disallowed,
in whole or in part, in the determination of whether the rates for
any tier of service or any type of equipment that is subject to regu-
lation under this section are lawful.
(o) STREAMLINED PETITION PROCESS FOR SMALL CABLE OPERA-
TORS.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this subsection, the Commission shall com-
plete a rulemaking to establish a streamlined process for filing
of an effective competition petition pursuant to this section for
small cable operators, particularly those who serve primarily
rural areas.
(2) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to have any effect on the duty of a small cable oper-
ator to prove the existence of effective competition under this
section.
(3) DEFINITION OF SMALL CABLE OPERATOR.—In this sub-
section, the term ‘‘small cable operator’’ has the meaning given
the term in subsection (m)(2).
SEC. 624. ø47 U.S.C. 544¿ REGULATION OF SERVICES, FACILITIES, AND
EQUIPMENT.
(a) Any franchising authority may not regulate the services, fa-
cilities, and equipment provided by a cable operator except to the
extent consistent with this title.
(b) In the case of any franchise granted after the effective date
of this title, the franchising authority, to the extent related to the
establishment or operation of a cable system—
(1) in its request for proposals for a franchise (including re-
quests for renewal proposals, subject to section 626), may es-
tablish requirements for facilities and equipment, but may not,
except as provided in subsection (h), establish requirements for
video programming or other information services; and
(2) subject to section 625, may enforce any requirements
contained within the franchise—
(A) for facilities and equipment; and
(B) for broad categories of video programming or other
services.
(c) In the case of any franchise in effect on the effective date
of this title, the franchising authority may, subject to section 625,
enforce requirements contained within the franchise for the provi-
sion of services, facilities, and equipment, whether or not related
to the establishment or operation of a cable system.
(d)(1) Nothing in this title shall be construed as prohibiting a
franchising authority and a cable operator from specifying, in a
franchise or renewal thereof, that certain cable services shall not
be provided or shall be provided subject to conditions, if such cable
services are obscene or are otherwise unprotected by the Constitu-
tion of the United States.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00346 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
347 Sec. 624COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
54 The amendments made by section 303(a)(23) and section 304(a)(11) of Public Law 103–414
(108 Stat. 4295 and 4297) added the word ‘‘of’’ several times.
55 This compilation executes amendments contained in section 304(a)(12)(A) and (B) of the
Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (P.L. 103–414) even though such section
referred to section 624(d)(2)(B) of the Communications Act of 1934.
(2) In order to restrict the viewing of 54 programming which is
obscene or indecent, upon the request of a subscriber, a cable oper-
ator shall provide (by sale or lease) a device by which the sub-
scriber can prohibit viewing of 54 a particular cable service during
periods selected by that subscriber. 55
(3)(A) If a cable operator provides a premium channel without
charge to cable subscribers who do not subscribe to such premium
channel, the cable operator shall, not later than 30 days before
such premium channel is provided without charge—
(i) notify all cable subscribers that the cable operator plans
to provide a premium channel without charge;
(ii) notify all cable subscribers when the cable operator
plans to offer a premium channel without charge;
(iii) notify all cable subscribers that they have a right to
request that the channel carrying the premium channel be
blocked; and
(iv) block the channel carrying the premium channel upon
the request of a subscriber.
(B) For the purpose of this section, the term ‘‘premium chan-
nel’’ shall mean any pay service offered on a per channel or per
program basis, which offers movies rated by the Motion Picture As-
sociation of America as X, NC–17, or R.
(e) Within one year after the date of enactment of the Cable
Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, the
Commission shall prescribe regulations which establish minimum
technical standards relating to cable systems’ technical operation
and signal quality. The Commission shall update such standards
periodically to reflect improvements in technology. No State or
franchising authority may prohibit, condition, or restrict a cable
system’s use of any type of subscriber equipment or any trans-
mission technology.
(f)(1) Any Federal agency, State, or franchising authority may
not impose requirements regarding the provision or content of cable
services, except as expressly provided in this title.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
(A) any rule, regulation, or order issued under any Federal
law, as such rule, regulation, or order (i) was in effect on Sep-
tember 21, 1983, or (ii) may be amended after such date if the
rule, regulation, or order as amended is not inconsistent with
the express provisions of this title; and
(B) any rule, regulation, or order under title 17, United
States Code.
(g) Notwithstanding any such rule, regulation, or order, each
cable operator shall comply with such standards as the Commission
shall prescribe to ensure that viewers of video programming on
cable systems are afforded the same emergency information as is
afforded by the emergency broadcasting system pursuant to Com-
mission regulations in subpart G of part 73, title 47, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00347 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
348Sec. 624A COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(h) A franchising authority may require a cable operator to do
any one or more of the following:
(1) Provide 30 days’ advance written notice of any change
in channel assignment or in the video programming service
provided over any such channel.
(2) Inform subscribers, via written notice, that comments
on programming and channel position changes are being re-
corded by a designated office of the franchising authority.
(i) Within 120 days after the date of enactment of this sub-
section, the Commission shall prescribe rules concerning the dis-
position, after a subscriber to a cable system terminates service, of
any cable installed by the cable operator within the premises of
such subscriber.
SEC. 624A. ø47 U.S.C. 544a¿ CONSUMER ELECTRONICS EQUIPMENT
COMPATIBILITY.
(a) FINDINGS.—The Congress finds that—
(1) new and recent models of television receivers and video
cassette recorders often contain premium features and func-
tions that are disabled or inhibited because of cable scram-
bling, encoding, or encryption technologies and devices, includ-
ing converter boxes and remote control devices required by
cable operators to receive programming;
(2) if these problems are allowed to persist, consumers will
be less likely to purchase, and electronics equipment manufac-
turers will be less likely to develop, manufacture, or offer for
sale, television receivers and video cassette recorders with new
and innovative features and functions;
(3) cable operators should use technologies that will pre-
vent signal thefts while permitting consumers to benefit from
such features and functions in such receivers and recorders;
and (4) compatibility among televisions, video cassette record-
ers, and cable systems can be assured with narrow technical
standards that mandate a minimum degree of common design
and operation, leaving all features, functions, protocols, and
other product and service options for selection through open
competition in the market.
(b) COMPATIBLE INTERFACES.—
(1) REGULATIONS.—The Commission shall issue such regu-
lations as are necessary to assure compatibility between tele-
visions and video cassette recorders and cable systems, con-
sistent with the need to prevent theft of cable service, so that
cable subscribers will be able to enjoy the full benefit of both
the programming available on cable systems and the functions
available on their televisions and video cassette recorders.
(2) SCRAMBLING AND ENCRYPTION.—In issuing the regula-
tions referred to in paragraph (1), the Commission shall deter-
mine whether and, if so, under what circumstances to permit
cable systems to scramble or encrypt signals or to restrict cable
systems in the manner in which they encrypt or scramble sig-
nals, except that the Commission shall not limit the use of
scrambling or encryption technology where the use of such
technology does not interfere with the functions of subscribers’
television receivers or video cassette recorders.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00348 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
349 Sec. 624ACOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(c) RULEMAKING REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) FACTORS TO BE CONSIDERED.—In prescribing the regu-
lations required by this section, the Commission shall con-
sider— (A) the need to maximize open competition in the mar-
ket for all features, functions, protocols, and other product
and service options of converter boxes and other cable con-
verters unrelated to the descrambling or decryption of
cable television signals;
(B) the costs and benefits to consumers of imposing
compatibility requirements on cable operators and tele-
vision manufacturers in a manner that, while providing ef-
fective protection against theft or unauthorized reception
of cable service, will minimize interference with or nul-
lification of the special functions of subscribers’ television
receivers or video cassette recorders, including functions
that permit the subscriber—
(i) to watch a program on one channel while si-
multaneously using a video cassette recorder to tape a
program on another channel;
(ii) to use a video cassette recorder to tape two
consecutive programs that appear on different chan-
nels; and
(iii) to use advanced television picture generation
and display features; and
(C) the need for cable operators to protect the integrity
of the signals transmitted by the cable operator against
theft or to protect such signals against unauthorized recep-
tion.
(2) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—The regulations prescribed
by the Commission under this section shall include such regu-
lations as are necessary—
(A) to specify the technical requirements with which a
television receiver or video cassette recorder must comply
in order to be sold as ‘‘cable compatible’’ or ‘‘cable ready’’;
(B) to require cable operators offering channels whose
reception requires a converter box—
(i) to notify subscribers that they may be unable
to benefit from the special functions of their television
receivers and video cassette recorders, including func-
tions that permit subscribers—
(I) to watch a program on one channel while
simultaneously using a video cassette recorder to
tape a program on another channel;
(II) to use a video cassette recorder to tape
two consecutive programs that appear on different
channels; and
(III) to use advanced television picture gen-
eration and display features; and
(ii) to the extent technically and economically fea-
sible, to offer subscribers the option of having all other
channels delivered directly to the subscribers’ tele-
vision receivers or video cassette recorders without
passing through the converter box;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00349 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
350Sec. 625 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(C) to promote the commercial availability, from cable
operators and retail vendors that are not affiliated with
cable systems, of converter boxes and of remote control de-
vices compatible with converter boxes;
(D) to ensure that any standards or regulations devel-
oped under the authority of this section to ensure compat-
ibility between televisions, video cassette recorders, and
cable systems do not affect features, functions, protocols,
and other product and service options other than those
specified in paragraph (1)(B), including telecommuni-
cations interface equipment, home automation communica-
tions, and computer network services;
(E) to require a cable operator who offers subscribers
the option of renting a remote control unit—
(i) to notify subscribers that they may purchase a
commercially available remote control device from any
source that sells such devices rather than renting it
from the cable operator; and
(ii) to specify the types of remote control units
that are compatible with the converter box supplied by
the cable operator; and
(F) to prohibit a cable operator from taking any action
that prevents or in any way disables the converter box
supplied by the cable operator from operating compatibly
with commercially available remote control units.
(d) REVIEW OF REGULATIONS.—The Commission shall periodi-
cally review and, if necessary, modify the regulations issued pursu-
ant to this section in light of any actions taken in response to such
regulations and to reflect improvements and changes in cable sys-
tems, television receivers, video cassette recorders, and similar
technology.
SEC. 625. ø47 U.S.C. 545¿ MODIFICATION OF FRANCHISE OBLIGATIONS.
(a)(1) During the period a franchise is in effect, the cable oper-
ator may obtain from the franchising authority modifications of the
requirements in such franchise—
(A) in the case of any such requirement for facilities or
equipment, including public, educational, or governmental ac-
cess facilities or equipment, if the cable operator demonstrates
that (i) it is commercially impracticable for the operator to
comply with such requirement, and (ii) the proposal by the
cable operator for modification of such requirement is appro-
priate because of commercial impracticability; or
(B) in the case of any such requirement for services, if the
cable operator demonstrates that the mix, quality, and level of
services required by the franchise at the time it was granted
will be maintained after such modification.
(2) Any final decision by a franchising authority under this
subsection shall be made in a public proceeding. Such decision
shall be made within 120 days after receipt of such request by the
franchising authority, unless such 120-day period is extended by
mutual agreement of the cable operator and the franchising author-
ity.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00350 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
351 Sec. 626COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(b)(1) Any cable operator whose request for modification under
subsection (a) has been denied by a final decision of a franchising
authority may obtain modification of such franchise requirements
pursuant to the provisions of section 635.
(2) In the case of any proposed modification of a requirement
for facilities or equipment, the court shall grant such modification
only if the cable operator demonstrates to the court that—
(A) it is commercially impracticable for the operator to
comply with such requirement; and
(B) the terms of the modification requested are appropriate
because of commercial impracticability.
(3) In the case of any proposed modification of a requirement
for services, the court shall grant such modification only if the
cable operator demonstrates to the court that the mix, quality, and
level of services required by the franchise at the time it was grant-
ed will be maintained after such modification.
(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), a cable operator
may, upon 30 days’ advance notice to the franchising authority, re-
arrange, replace, or remove a particular cable service required by
the franchise if—
(1) such service is no longer available to the operator; or
(2) such service is available to the operator only upon the
payment of a royalty required under section 801(b)(2) of title
17, United States Code, which the cable operator can docu-
ment—
(A) is substantially in excess of the amount of such
payment required on the date of the operator’s offer to pro-
vide such service, and
(B) has not been specifically compensated for through
a rate increase or other adjustment.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), a cable operator
may take such actions to rearrange a particular service from one
service tier to another, or otherwise offer the service, if the rates
for all of the service tiers involved in such actions are not subject
to regulation under section 623.
(e) A cable operator may not obtain modification under this
section of any requirement for services relating to public, edu-
cational, or governmental access.
(f) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘commercially imprac-
ticable’’ means, with respect to any requirement applicable to a
cable operator, that it is commercially impracticable for the oper-
ator to comply with such requirement as a result of a change in
conditions which is beyond the control of the operator and the non-
occurrence of which was a basic assumption on which the require-
ment was based.
SEC. 626. ø47 U.S.C. 546¿ RENEWAL.
(a)(1) A franchising authority may, on its own initiative during
the 6-month period which begins with the 36th month before the
franchise expiration, commence a proceeding which affords the pub-
lic in the franchise area appropriate notice and participation for
the purpose of (A) identifying the future cable-related community
needs and interests, and (B) reviewing the performance of the cable
operator under the franchise during the then current franchise
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00351 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
352Sec. 626 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
term. If the cable operator submits, during such 6-month period, a
written renewal notice requesting the commencement of such a
proceeding, the franchising authority shall commence such a pro-
ceeding not later than 6 months after the date such notice is sub-
mitted.
(2) The cable operator may not invoke the renewal procedures
set forth in subsections (b) through (g) unless—
(A) such a proceeding is requested by the cable operator by
timely submission of such notice; or
(B) such a proceeding is commenced by the franchising au-
thority on its own initiative.
(b)(1) Upon completion of a proceeding under subsection (a), a
cable operator seeking renewal of a franchise may, on its own ini-
tiative or at the request of a franchising authority, submit a pro-
posal for renewal.
(2) Subject to section 624, any such proposal shall contain such
material as the franchising authority may require, including pro-
posals for an upgrade of the cable system.
(3) The franchising authority may establish a date by which
such proposal shall be submitted.
(c)(1) Upon submittal by a cable operator of a proposal to the
franchising authority for the renewal of a franchise pursuant to
subsection (b), the franchising authority shall provide prompt pub-
lic notice of such proposal and, during the 4-month period which
begins on the date of the submission of the cable operator’s pro-
posal pursuant to subsection (b), renew the franchise or, issue a
preliminary assessment that the franchise should not be renewed
and, at the request of the operator or on its own initiative, com-
mence an administrative proceeding, after providing prompt public
notice of such proceeding, in accordance with paragraph (2) to con-
sider whether—
(A) the cable operator has substantially complied with the
material terms of the existing franchise and with applicable
law;
(B) the quality of the operator’s service, including signal
quality, response to consumer complaints, and billing practices,
but without regard to the mix or quality of cable services or
other services provided over the system, has been reasonable
in light of community needs;
(C) the operator has the financial, legal, and technical abil-
ity to provide the services, facilities, and equipment as set
forth in the operator’s proposal; and
(D) the operator’s proposal is reasonable to meet the future
cable-related community needs and interests, taking into ac-
count the cost of meeting such needs and interests.
(2) In any proceeding under paragraph (1), the cable operator
shall be afforded adequate notice and the cable operator and the
franchise authority, or its designee, shall be afforded fair oppor-
tunity for full participation, including the right to introduce evi-
dence (including evidence related to issues raised in the proceeding
under subsection (a)), to require the production of evidence, and to
question witnesses. A transcript shall be made of any such pro-
ceeding.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00352 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
353 Sec. 626COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(3) At the completion of a proceeding under this subsection, the
franchising authority shall issue a written decision granting or de-
nying the proposal for renewal based upon the record of such pro-
ceeding, and transmit a copy of such decision to the cable operator.
Such decision shall state the reasons therefor.
(d) Any denial of a proposal for renewal that has been sub-
mitted in compliance with subsection (b) shall be based on one or
more adverse findings made with respect to the factors described
in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection (c)(1), pursuant to
the record of the proceeding under subsection (c). A franchising au-
thority may not base a denial of renewal on a failure to substan-
tially comply with the material terms of the franchise under sub-
section (c)(1)(A) or on events considered under subsection (c)(1)(B)
in any case in which a violation of the franchise or the events con-
sidered under subsection (c)(1)(B) occur after the effective date of
this title unless the franchising authority has provided the operator
with notice and the opportunity to cure, or in any case in which
it is documented that the franchising authority has waived its right
to object, or the cable operator gives written notice of a failure or
inability to cure and the franchising authority fails to object within
a reasonable time after receipt of such notice.
(e)(1) Any cable operator whose proposal for renewal has been
denied by a final decision of a franchising authority made pursuant
to this section, or has been adversely affected by a failure of the
franchising authority to act in accordance with the procedural re-
quirements of this section, may appeal such final decision or failure
pursuant to the provisions of section 635.
(2) The court shall grant appropriate relief if the court finds
that— (A) any action of the franchising authority, other than
harmless error, is not in compliance with the procedural re-
quirements of this section; or
(B) in the event of a final decision of the franchising au-
thority denying the renewal proposal, the operator has dem-
onstrated that the adverse finding of the franchising authority
with respect to each of the factors described in subparagraphs
(A) through (D) of subsection (c)(1) on which the denial is
based is not supported by a preponderance of the evidence,
based on the record of the proceeding conducted under sub-
section (c).
(f) Any decision of a franchising authority on a proposal for re-
newal shall not be considered final unless all administrative review
by the State has occurred or the opportunity therefor has lapsed.
(g) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘franchise expiration’’
means the date of the expiration of the term of the franchise, as
provided under the franchise, as it was in effect on the date of the
enactment of this title.
(h) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) through
(g) of this section, a cable operator may submit a proposal for the
renewal of a franchise pursuant to this subsection at any time, and
a franchising authority may, after affording the public adequate no-
tice and opportunity for comment, grant or deny such proposal at
any time (including after proceedings pursuant to this section have
commenced). The provisions of subsections (a) through (g) of this
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00353 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
354Sec. 627 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
section shall not apply to a decision to grant or deny a proposal
under this subsection. The denial of a renewal pursuant to this
subsection shall not affect action on a renewal proposal that is sub-
mitted in accordance with subsections (a) through (g).
(i) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) through
(h), any lawful action to revoke a cable operator’s franchise for
cause shall not be negated by the subsequent initiation of renewal
proceedings by the cable operator under this section.
SEC. 627. ø47 U.S.C. 547¿ CONDITIONS OF SALE.
(a) If a renewal of a franchise held by a cable operator is de-
nied and the franchising authority acquires ownership of the cable
system or effects a transfer of ownership of the system to another
person, any such acquisition or transfer shall be—
(1) at fair market value, determined on the basis of the
cable system valued as a going concern but with no value allo-
cated to the franchise itself, or
(2) in the case of any franchise existing on the effective
date of this title, at a price determined in accordance with the
franchise if such franchise contains provisions applicable to
such an acquisition or transfer.
(b) If a franchise held by a cable operator is revoked for cause
and the franchising authority acquires ownership of the cable sys-
tem or effects a transfer of ownership of the system to another per-
son, any such acquisition or transfer shall be—
(1) at an equitable price, or
(2) in the case of any franchise existing on the effective
date of this title, at a price determined in accordance with the
franchise if such franchise contains provisions applicable to
such an acquisition or transfer.
SEC. 628. ø47 U.S.C. 548¿ DEVELOPMENT OF COMPETITION AND DIVER-
SITY IN VIDEO PROGRAMMING DISTRIBUTION.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section is to promote the
public interest, convenience, and necessity by increasing competi-
tion and diversity in the multichannel video programming market,
to increase the availability of satellite cable programming and sat-
ellite broadcast programming to persons in rural and other areas
not currently able to receive such programming, and to spur the
development of communications technologies.
(b) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for a cable operator, a
satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable operator has
an attributable interest, or a satellite broadcast programming ven-
dor to engage in unfair methods of competition or unfair or decep-
tive acts or practices, the purpose or effect of which is to hinder sig-
nificantly or to prevent any multichannel video programming dis-
tributor from providing satellite cable programming or satellite
broadcast programming to subscribers or consumers.
(c) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—
(1) PROCEEDING REQUIRED.—Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall, in
order to promote the public interest, convenience, and necessity
by increasing competition and diversity in the multichannel
video programming market and the continuing development of
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00354 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
355 Sec. 628COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
communications technologies, prescribe regulations to specify
particular conduct that is prohibited by subsection (b).
(2) MINIMUM CONTENTS OF REGULATIONS.—The regulations
to be promulgated under this section shall—
(A) establish effective safeguards to prevent a cable
operator which has an attributable interest in a satellite
cable programming vendor or a satellite broadcast pro-
gramming vendor from unduly or improperly influencing
the decision of such vendor to sell, or the prices, terms,
and conditions of sale of, satellite cable programming or
satellite broadcast programming to any unaffiliated multi-
channel video programming distributor;
(B) prohibit discrimination by a satellite cable pro-
gramming vendor in which a cable operator has an attrib-
utable interest or by a satellite broadcast programming
vendor in the prices, terms, and conditions of sale or deliv-
ery of satellite cable programming or satellite broadcast
programming among or between cable systems, cable oper-
ators, or other multichannel video programming distribu-
tors, or their agents or buying groups; except that such a
satellite cable programming vendor in which a cable oper-
ator has an attributable interest or such a satellite broad-
cast programming vendor shall not be prohibited from—
(i) imposing reasonable requirements for credit-
worthiness, offering of service, and financial stability
and standards regarding character and technical qual-
ity; (ii) establishing different prices, terms, and condi-
tions to take into account actual and reasonable dif-
ferences in the cost of creation, sale, delivery, or trans-
mission of satellite cable programming or satellite
broadcast programming;
(iii) establishing different prices, terms, and condi-
tions which take into account economies of scale, cost
savings, or other direct and legitimate economic bene-
fits reasonably attributable to the number of sub-
scribers served by the distributor; or
(iv) entering into an exclusive contract that is per-
mitted under subparagraph (D);
(C) prohibit practices, understandings, arrangements,
and activities, including exclusive contracts for satellite
cable programming or satellite broadcast programming be-
tween a cable operator and a satellite cable programming
vendor or satellite broadcast programming vendor, that
prevent a multichannel video programming distributor
from obtaining such programming from any satellite cable
programming vendor in which a cable operator has an at-
tributable interest or any satellite broadcast programming
vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable inter-
est for distribution to persons in areas not served by a
cable operator as of the date of enactment of this section;
and (D) with respect to distribution to persons in areas
served by a cable operator, prohibit exclusive contracts for
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00355 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
356Sec. 628 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
satellite cable programming or satellite broadcast pro-
gramming between a cable operator and a satellite cable
programming vendor in which a cable operator has an at-
tributable interest or a satellite broadcast programming
vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable inter-
est, unless the Commission determines (in accordance with
paragraph (4)) that such contract is in the public interest.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—
(A) GEOGRAPHIC LIMITATIONS.—Nothing in this section
shall require any person who is engaged in the national or
regional distribution of video programming to make such
programming available in any geographic area beyond
which such programming has been authorized or licensed
for distribution.
(B) APPLICABILITY TO SATELLITE RETRANSMISSIONS.—
Nothing in this section shall apply (i) to the signal of any
broadcast affiliate of a national television network or other
television signal that is retransmitted by satellite but that
is not satellite broadcast programming, or (ii) to any inter-
nal satellite communication of any broadcast network or
cable network that is not satellite broadcast programming.
(4) PUBLIC INTEREST DETERMINATIONS ON EXCLUSIVE CON-
TRACTS.—In determining whether an exclusive contract is in
the public interest for purposes of paragraph (2)(D), the Com-
mission shall consider each of the following factors with re-
spect to the effect of such contract on the distribution of video
programming in areas that are served by a cable operator:
(A) the effect of such exclusive contract on the develop-
ment of competition in local and national multichannel
video programming distribution markets;
(B) the effect of such exclusive contract on competition
from multichannel video programming distribution tech-
nologies other than cable;
(C) the effect of such exclusive contract on the attrac-
tion of capital investment in the production and distribu-
tion of new satellite cable programming;
(D) the effect of such exclusive contract on diversity of
programming in the multichannel video programming dis-
tribution market; and
(E) the duration of the exclusive contract.
(5) SUNSET PROVISION.—The prohibition required by para-
graph (2)(D) shall cease to be effective 10 years after the date
of enactment of this section, unless the Commission finds, in
a proceeding conducted during the last year of such 10-year pe-
riod, that such prohibition continues to be necessary to pre-
serve and protect competition and diversity in the distribution
of video programming.
(d) A DJUDICATORY PROCEEDING.—Any multichannel video pro-
gramming distributor aggrieved by conduct that it alleges con-
stitutes a violation of subsection (b), or the regulations of the Com-
mission under subsection (c), may commence an adjudicatory pro-
ceeding at the Commission.
(e) REMEDIES FOR VIOLATIONS.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00356 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
357 Sec. 628COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) REMEDIES AUTHORIZED.—Upon completion of such adju-
dicatory proceeding, the Commission shall have the power to
order appropriate remedies, including, if necessary, the power
to establish prices, terms, and conditions of sale of program-
ming to the aggrieved multichannel video programming dis-
tributor.
(2) ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.—The remedies provided in
paragraph (1) are in addition to and not in lieu of the remedies
available under title V or any other provision of this Act.
(f) PROCEDURES.—The Commission shall prescribe regulations
to implement this section. The Commission’s regulations shall—
(1) provide for an expedited review of any complaints made
pursuant to this section;
(2) establish procedures for the Commission to collect such
data, including the right to obtain copies of all contracts and
documents reflecting arrangements and understandings al-
leged to violate this section, as the Commission requires to
carry out this section; and
(3) provide for penalties to be assessed against any person
filing a frivolous complaint pursuant to this section.
(g) COMMON CARRIERS.—Any provision that applies to a cable
operator under this section shall apply to a common carrier or its
affiliate that provides video programming by any means directly to
subscribers. Any such provision that applies to a satellite cable pro-
gramming vendor in which a cable operator has an attributable in-
terest shall apply to any satellite cable programming vendor in
which such common carrier has an attributable interest. For the
purposes of this subsection, two or fewer common officers or direc-
tors shall not by itself establish an attributable interest by a com-
mon carrier in a satellite cable programming vendor (or its parent
company).
(h) EXEMPTIONS FOR PRIOR CONTRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this section shall affect any
contract that grants exclusive distribution rights to any person
with respect to satellite cable programming and that was en-
tered into on or before June 1, 1990, except that the provisions
of subsection (c)(2)(C) shall apply for distribution to persons in
areas not served by a cable operator.
(2) LIMITATION ON RENEWALS.—A contract that was en-
tered into on or before June 1, 1990, but that is renewed or ex-
tended after the date of enactment of this section shall not be
exempt under paragraph (1).
(i) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) The term ‘‘satellite cable programming’’ has the mean-
ing provided under section 705 of this Act, except that such
term does not include satellite broadcast programming.
(2) The term ‘‘satellite cable programming vendor’’ means
a person engaged in the production, creation, or wholesale dis-
tribution for sale of satellite cable programming, but does not
include a satellite broadcast programming vendor.
(3) The term ‘‘satellite broadcast programming’’ means
broadcast video programming when such programming is re-
transmitted by satellite and the entity retransmitting such
programming is not the broadcaster or an entity performing
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00357 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
358Sec. 629 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
such retransmission on behalf of and with the specific consent
of the broadcaster.
(4) The term ‘‘satellite broadcast programming vendor’’
means a fixed service satellite carrier that provides service
pursuant to section 119 of title 17, United States Code, with
respect to satellite broadcast programming.
SEC. 629. ø47 U.S.C. 549¿ COMPETITIVE AVAILABILITY OF NAVIGATION
DEVICES.
(a) COMMERCIAL CONSUMER AVAILABILITY OF EQUIPMENT USED
T O ACCESS SERVICES PROVIDED BY MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PRO-
GRAMMING DISTRIBUTORS.—The Commission shall, in consultation
with appropriate industry standard-setting organizations, adopt
regulations to assure the commercial availability, to consumers of
multichannel video programming and other services offered over
multichannel video programming systems, of converter boxes,
interactive communications equipment, and other equipment used
by consumers to access multichannel video programming and other
services offered over multichannel video programming systems,
from manufacturers, retailers, and other vendors not affiliated with
any multichannel video programming distributor. Such regulations
shall not prohibit any multichannel video programming distributor
from also offering converter boxes, interactive communications
equipment, and other equipment used by consumers to access mul-
tichannel video programming and other services offered over multi-
channel video programming systems, to consumers, if the system
operator’s charges to consumers for such devices and equipment
are separately stated and not subsidized by charges for any such
service.
(b) PROTECTION OF SYSTEM SECURITY.—The Commission shall
not prescribe regulations under subsection (a) which would jeop-
ardize security of multichannel video programming and other serv-
ices offered over multichannel video programming systems, or im-
pede the legal rights of a provider of such services to prevent theft
of service.
(c) W AIVER.—The Commission shall waive a regulation adopted
under subsection (a) for a limited time upon an appropriate show-
ing by a provider of multichannel video programming and other
services offered over multichannel video programming systems, or
an equipment provider, that such waiver is necessary to assist the
development or introduction of a new or improved multichannel
video programming or other service offered over multichannel video
programming systems, technology, or products. Upon an appro-
priate showing, the Commission shall grant any such waiver re-
quest within 90 days of any application filed under this subsection,
and such waiver shall be effective for all service providers and
products in that category and for all providers of services and prod-
ucts.(d) AVOIDANCE OF REDUNDANT REGULATIONS.—
(1) COMMERCIAL AVAILABILITY DETERMINATIONS.—Deter-
minations made or regulations prescribed by the Commission
with respect to commercial availability to consumers of con-
verter boxes, interactive communications equipment, and other
equipment used by consumers to access multichannel video
programming and other services offered over multichannel
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00358 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
359 Sec. 631COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
video programming systems, before the date of enactment of
the Telecommunications Act of 1996 shall fulfill the require-
ments of this section.
(2) REGULATIONS.—Nothing in this section affects section
64.702(e) of the Commission’s regulations (47 C.F.R. 64.702(e))
or other Commission regulations governing interconnection and
competitive provision of customer premises equipment used in
connection with basic common carrier communications services.
(e) SUNSET.—The regulations adopted under this section shall
cease to apply when the Commission determines that—
(1) the market for the multichannel video programming
distributors is fully competitive;
(2) the market for converter boxes, and interactive commu-
nications equipment, used in conjunction with that service is
fully competitive; and
(3) elimination of the regulations would promote competi-
tion and the public interest.
(f) COMMISSION’ S AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this section shall be
construed as expanding or limiting any authority that the Commis-
sion may have under law in effect before the date of enactment of
the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
PART IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 631. ø47 U.S.C. 551¿ PROTECTION OF SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
(a)(1) At the time of entering into an agreement to provide any
cable service or other service to a subscriber and at least once a
year thereafter, a cable operator shall provide notice in the form
of a separate, written statement to such subscriber which clearly
and conspicuously informs the subscriber of—
(A) the nature of personally identifiable information col-
lected or to be collected with respect to the subscriber and the
nature of the use of such information;
(B) the nature, frequency, and purpose of any disclosure
which may be made of such information, including an identi-
fication of the types of persons to whom the disclosure may be
made;
(C) the period during which such information will be main-
tained by the cable operator;
(D) the times and place at which the subscriber may have
access to such information in accordance with subsection (d);
and (E) the limitations provided by this section with respect to
the collection and disclosure of information by a cable operator
and the right of the subscriber under subsections (f) and (h) to
enforce such limitations.
In the case of subscribers who have entered into such an agree-
ment before the effective date of this section, such notice shall be
provided within 180 days of such date and at least once a year
thereafter.
(2) For purposes of this section, other than subsection (h)—
(A) the term ‘‘personally identifiable information’’ does not
include any record of aggregate data which does not identify
particular persons;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00359 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
360Sec. 631 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) the term ‘‘other service’’ includes any wire or radio
communications service provided using any of the facilities of
a cable operator that are used in the provision of cable service;
and (C) the term ‘‘cable operator’’ includes, in addition to per-
sons within the definition of cable operator in section 602, any
person who (i) is owned or controlled by, or under common
ownership or control with, a cable operator, and (ii) provides
any wire or radio communications service.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a cable operator
shall not use the cable system to collect personally identifiable in-
formation concerning any subscriber without the prior written or
electronic consent of the subscriber concerned.
(2) A cable operator may use the cable system to collect such
information in order to—
(A) obtain information necessary to render a cable service
or other service provided by the cable operator to the sub-
scriber; or
(B) detect unauthorized reception of cable communications.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a cable operator
shall not disclose personally identifiable information concerning
any subscriber without the prior written or electronic consent of
the subscriber concerned and shall take such actions as are nec-
essary to prevent unauthorized access to such information by a per-
son other than the subscriber or cable operator.
(2) A cable operator may disclose such information if the disclo-
sure is—(A) necessary to render, or conduct a legitimate business
activity related to, a cable service or other service provided by
the cable operator to the subscriber;
(B) subject to subsection (h), made pursuant to a court
order authorizing such disclosure, if the subscriber is notified
of such order by the person to whom the order is directed;
(C) a disclosure of the names and addresses of subscribers
to any cable service or other service, if—
(i) the cable operator has provided the subscriber the
opportunity to prohibit or limit such disclosure, and
(ii) the disclosure does not reveal, directly or indi-
rectly, the—
(I) extent of any viewing or other use by the sub-
scriber of a cable service or other service provided by
the cable operator, or
(II) the nature of any transaction made by the
subscriber over the cable system of the cable operator;
or
(D) to a government entity as authorized under chapters
119, 121, or 206 of title 18, United States Code, except that
such disclosure shall not include records revealing cable sub-
scriber selection of video programming from a cable operator.
(d) A cable subscriber shall be provided access to all personally
identifiable information regarding that subscriber which is col-
lected and maintained by a cable operator. Such information shall
be made available to the subscriber at reasonable times and at a
convenient place designated by such cable operator. A cable sub-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00360 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
361 Sec. 632COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
scriber shall be provided reasonable opportunity to correct any
error in such information.
(e) A cable operator shall destroy personally identifiable infor-
mation if the information is no longer necessary for the purpose for
which it was collected and there are no pending requests or orders
for access to such information under subsection (d) or pursuant to
a court order.
(f)(1) Any person aggrieved by any act of a cable operator in
violation of this section may bring a civil action in a United States
district court.
(2) The court may award—
(A) actual damages but not less than liquidated damages
computed at the rate of $100 a day for each day of violation
or $1,000, whichever is higher;
(B) punitive damages; and
(C) reasonable attorneys’ fees and other litigation costs
reasonably incurred.
(3) The remedy provided by this section shall be in addition to
any other lawful remedy available to a cable subscriber.
(g) Nothing in this title shall be construed to prohibit any
State or any franchising authority from enacting or enforcing laws
consistent with this section for the protection of subscriber privacy.
(h) Except as provided in subsection (c)(2)(D), a governmental
entity may obtain personally identifiable information concerning a
cable subscriber pursuant to a court order only if, in the court pro-
ceeding relevant to such court order—
(1) such entity offers clear and convincing evidence that
the subject of the information is reasonably suspected of engag-
ing in criminal activity and that the information sought would
be material evidence in the case; and
(2) the subject of the information is afforded the oppor-
tunity to appear and contest such entity’s claim.
SEC. 632. ø47 U.S.C. 552¿ CONSUMER PROTECTION AND CUSTOMER
SERVICE.
(a) FRANCHISING AUTHORITY ENFORCEMENT.—A franchising au-
thority may establish and enforce—
(1) customer service requirements of the cable operator;
and (2) construction schedules and other construction-related
requirements, including construction-related performance re-
quirements, of the cable operator.
(b) COMMISSION STANDARDS.—The Commission shall, within
180 days of enactment of the Cable Television Consumer Protection
and Competition Act of 1992, establish standards by which cable
operators may fulfill their customer service requirements. Such
standards shall include, at a minimum, requirements governing—
(1) cable system office hours and telephone availability;
(2) installations, outages, and service calls; and
(3) communications between the cable operator and the
subscriber (including standards governing bills and refunds).
(c) SUBSCRIBER NOTICE.—A cable operator may provide notice
of service and rate changes to subscribers using any reasonable
written means at its sole discretion. Notwithstanding section
623(b)(6) or any other provision of this Act, a cable operator shall
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00361 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
362Sec. 633 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
not be required to provide prior notice of any rate change that is
the result of a regulatory fee, franchise fee, or any other fee, tax,
assessment, or charge of any kind imposed by any Federal agency,
State, or franchising authority on the transaction between the op-
erator and the subscriber.
(d) CONSUMER PROTECTION LAWS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE
AGREEMENTS.—
(1) CONSUMER PROTECTION LAWS.—Nothing in this title
shall be construed to prohibit any State or any franchising au-
thority from enacting or enforcing any consumer protection
law, to the extent not specifically preempted by this title.
(2) CUSTOMER SERVICE REQUIREMENT AGREEMENTS.—Noth-
ing in this section shall be construed to preclude a franchising
authority and a cable operator from agreeing to customer serv-
ice requirements that exceed the standards established by the
Commission under subsection (b). Nothing in this title shall be
construed to prevent the establishment or enforcement of any
municipal law or regulation, or any State law, concerning cus-
tomer service that imposes customer service requirements that
exceed the standards set by the Commission under this section,
or that addresses matters not addressed by the standards set
by the Commission under this section.
SEC. 633. ø47 U.S.C. 553¿ UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION OF CABLE SERV-
ICE.
(a)(1) No person shall intercept or receive or assist in inter-
cepting or receiving any communications service offered over a
cable system, unless specifically authorized to do so by a cable op-
erator or as may otherwise be specifically authorized by law.
(2) For the purpose of this section, the term ‘‘assist in inter-
cepting or receiving’’ shall include the manufacture or distribution
of equipment intended by the manufacturer or distributor (as the
case may be) for unauthorized reception of any communications
service offered over a cable system in violation of subparagraph (1).
(b)(1) Any person who willfully violates subsection (a)(1) shall
be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than 6
months, or both.
(2) Any person who violates subsection (a)(1) willfully and for
purposes of commercial advantage or private financial gain shall be
fined not more than $50,000 or imprisoned for not more than 2
years, or both, for the first such offense and shall be fined not more
than $100,000 or imprisoned for not more than 5 years, or both, for
any subsequent offense.
(3) For purposes of all penalties and remedies established for
violations of subsection (a)(1), the prohibited activity established
herein as it applies to each such device shall be deemed a separate
violation.
(c)(1) Any person aggrieved by any violation of subsection (a)(1)
may bring a civil action in a United States district court or in any
other court of competent jurisdiction.
(2) The court may—
(A) grant temporary and final injunctions on such terms as
it may deem reasonable to prevent or restrain violations of
subsection (a)(1);
(B) award damages as described in paragraph (3); and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00362 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
363 Sec. 634COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(C) direct the recovery of full costs, including awarding
reasonable attorneys’ fees to an aggrieved party who prevails.
(3)(A) Damages awarded by any court under this section shall
be computed in accordance with either of the following clauses:
(i) the party aggrieved may recover the actual damages
suffered by him as a result of the violation and any profits of
the violator that are attributable to the violation which are not
taken into account in computing the actual damages; in deter-
mining the violator’s profits, the party aggrieved shall be re-
quired to prove only the violator’s gross revenue, and the viola-
tor shall be required to prove his deductible expenses and the
elements of profit attributable to factors other than the viola-
tion; or
(ii) the party aggrieved may recover an award of statutory
damages for all violations involved in the action, in a sum of
not less than $250 or more than $10,000 as the court considers
just.
(B) In any case in which the court finds that the violation was
committed willfully and for purposes of commercial advantage or
private financial gain, the court in its discretion may increase the
award of damages, whether actual or statutory under subpara-
graph (A), by an amount of not more than $50,000.
(C) In any case where the court finds that the violator was not
aware and had no reason to believe that his acts constituted a vio-
lation of this section, the court in its discretion may reduce the
award of damages to a sum of not less than $100.
(D) Nothing in this title shall prevent any State or franchising
authority from enacting or enforcing laws, consistent with this sec-
tion, regarding the unauthorized interception or reception of any
cable service or other communications service.
SEC. 634. ø47 U.S.C. 554¿ EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY.
(a) This section shall apply to any corporation, partnership, as-
sociation, joint-stock company, or trust engaged primarily in the
management or operation of any cable system.
(b) Equal opportunity in employment shall be afforded by each
entity specified in subsection (a), and no person shall be discrimi-
nated against in employment by such entity because of race, color,
religion, national origin, age, or sex.
(c) Any entity specified in subsection (a) shall establish, main-
tain, and execute a positive continuing program of specific practices
designed to ensure equal opportunity in every aspect of its employ-
ment policies and practices. Under the terms of its program, each
such entity shall—
(1) define the responsibility of each level of management to
ensure a positive application and vigorous enforcement of its
policy of equal opportunity, and establish a procedure to review
and control managerial and supervisory performance;
(2) inform its employees and recognized employee organi-
zations of the equal employment opportunity policy and pro-
gram and enlist their cooperation;
(3) communicate its equal employment opportunity policy
and program and its employment needs to sources of qualified
applicants without regard to race, color, religion, national ori-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00363 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
364Sec. 634 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
gin, age, or sex, and solicit their recruitment assistance on a
continuing basis;
(4) conduct a continuing program to exclude every form of
prejudice or discrimination based on race, color, religion, na-
tional origin, age, or sex, from its personnel policies and prac-
tices and working conditions; and
(5) conduct a continuing review of job structure and em-
ployment practices and adopt positive recruitment, training,
job design, and other measures needed to ensure genuine
equality of opportunity to participate fully in all its organiza-
tional units, occupations, and levels of responsibility.
(d)(1) Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of
the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, and after notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission
shall prescribe revisions in the rules under this section in order to
implement the amendments made to this section by such Act. Such
revisions shall be designed to promote equality of employment op-
portunities for females and minorities in each of the job categories
itemized in paragraph (3).
(2) Such rules shall specify the terms under which an entity
specified in subsection (a) shall, to the extent possible—
(A) disseminate its equal opportunity program to job appli-
cants, employees, and those with whom it regularly does busi-
ness;
(B) use minority organizations, organizations for women,
media, educational institutions, and other potential sources of
minority and female applicants, to supply referrals whenever
jobs are available in its operation;
(C) evaluate its employment profile and job turnover
against the availability of minorities and women in its fran-
chise area;
(D) undertake to offer promotions of minorities and women
to positions of greater responsibility;
(E) encourage minority and female entrepreneurs to con-
duct business with all parts of its operation; and
(F) analyze the results of its efforts to recruit, hire, pro-
mote, and use the services of minorities and women and ex-
plain any difficulties encountered in implementing its equal
employment opportunity program.
(3)(A) Such rules also shall require an entity specified in sub-
section (a) with more than 5 full-time employees to file with the
Commission an annual statistical report identifying by race, sex,
and job title the number of employees in each of the following full-
time and part-time job categories:
(i) Corporate officers.
(ii) General Manager.
(iii) Chief Technician.
(iv) Comptroller.
(v) General Sales Manager.
(vi) Production Manager.
(vii) Managers.
(viii) Professionals.
(ix) Technicians.
(x) Sales Personnel.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00364 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
365 Sec. 634COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(xi) Office and Clerical Personnel.
(xii) Skilled Craftspersons.
(xiii) Semiskilled Operatives.
(xiv) Unskilled Laborers.
(xv) Service Workers.
(B) The report required by subparagraph (A) shall be made on
separate forms, provided by the Commission, for full-time and part-
time employees. The Commission’s rules shall sufficiently define
the job categories listed in clauses (i) through (vi) of such subpara-
graph so as to ensure that only employees who are principal deci-
sionmakers and who have supervisory authority are reported for
such categories. The Commission shall adopt rules that define the
job categories listed in clauses (vii) through (xv) in a manner that
is consistent with the Commission policies in effect on June 1,
1990. The Commission shall prescribe the method by which entities
shall be required to compute and report the number of minorities
and women in the job categories listed in clauses (i) through (x)
and the number of minorities and women in the job categories list-
ed in clauses (i) through (xv) in proportion to the total number of
qualified minorities and women in the relevant labor market. The
report shall include information on hiring, promotion, and recruit-
ment practices necessary for the Commission to evaluate the efforts
of entities to comply with the provisions of paragraph (2) of this
subsection. The report shall be available for public inspection at
the entity’s central location and at every location where 5 or more
full-time employees are regularly assigned to work. Nothing in this
subsection shall be construed as prohibiting the Commission from
collecting or continuing to collect statistical or other employment
information in a manner that it deems appropriate to carry out this
section.
(4) The Commission may amend such rules from time to time
to the extent necessary to carry out the provisions of this section.
Any such amendment shall be made after notice and opportunity
for comment.
(e)(1) On an annual basis, the Commission shall certify each
entity described in subsection (a) as in compliance with this section
if, on the basis of information in the possession of the Commission,
including the report filed pursuant to subsection (d)(3), such entity
was in compliance, during the annual period involved, with the re-
quirements of subsections (b), (c), and (d).
(2) The Commission shall, periodically but not less frequently
than every five years, investigate the employment practices of each
entity described in subsection (a), in the aggregate, as well as in
individual job categories, and determine whether such entity is in
compliance with the requirements of subsections (b), (c), and (d),
including whether such entity’s employment practices deny or
abridge women and minorities equal employment opportunities. As
part of such investigation, the Commission shall review whether
the entity’s reports filed pursuant to subsection (d)(3) accurately re-
flect employee responsibilities in the reported job classification.
(f)(1) If the Commission finds after notice and hearing that the
entity involved has willfuly or repeatedly without good cause failed
to comply with the requirements of this section, such failure shall
constitute a substantial failure to comply with this title. The fail-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00365 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
366Sec. 634 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ure to obtain certification under subsection (e) shall not itself con-
stitute the basis for a determination of substantial failure to com-
ply with this title. For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘‘re-
peatedly’’, when used with respect to failures to comply, refers to
3 or more failures during any 7-year period.
(2) Any person who is determined by the Commission, through
an investigation pursuant to subsection (e) or otherwise, to have
failed to meet or failed to make best efforts to meet the require-
ments of this section, or rules under this section, shall be liable to
the United States for a forefeiture penalty of $500 for each viola-
tion. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate
offense. Any entity defined in subsection (a) shall not be liable for
more than 180 days of forfeitures which accrued prior to notifica-
tion by the Commission of a potential violation. Nothing in this
paragraph shall limit the forfeiture imposed on any person as a re-
sult of any violation that continues subsequent to such notification.
In addition, any person liable for such penalty may also have any
license under this Act for cable auxiliary relay service suspended
until the Commission determines that the failure involved has been
corrected. Whoever knowingly makes any false statement or sub-
mits documentation which he knows to be false, pursuant to an ap-
plication for certification under this section shall be in violation of
this section.
(3) The provisions of paragraphs (3) and (4), and the last 2 sen-
tences of paragraph (2), of section 503(b) shall apply to forfeitures
under this subsection.
(4) The Commission shall provide for notice to the public and
appropriate franchising authorities of any penalty imposed under
this section.
(g) Employees or applicants for employment who believe they
have been discriminated against in violation of the requirements of
this section, or rules under this section, or any other interested
person, may file a complaint with the Commission. A complaint by
any such person shall be in writing, and shall be signed and sworn
to by that person. The regulations under subsection (d)(1) shall
specify a program, under authorities otherwise available to the
Commission, for the investigation of complaints and violations, and
for the enforcement of this section.
(h)(1) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘cable operator’’ in-
cludes any operator of any satellite master antenna television sys-
tem, including a system described in section 602(7)(A) and any
multichannel video programming distributor.
(2) Such term does not include any operator of a system which,
in the aggregate, serves fewer than 50 subscribers.
(3) In any case in which a cable operator is the owner of a mul-
tiple unit dwelling, the requirements of this section shall only
apply to such cable operator with respect to its employees who are
primarily engaged in cable telecommunications.
(i)(1) Nothing in this section shall affect the authority of any
State or any franchising authority—
(A) to establish or enforce any requirement which is con-
sistent with the requirements of this section, including any re-
quirement which affords equal employment opportunity protec-
tion for employees;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00366 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
367 Sec. 635ACOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) to establish or enforce any provision requiring or en-
couraging any cable operator to conduct business with enter-
prises which are owned or controlled by members of minority
groups (as defined in section 309(i)(3)(C)(ii) or which have their
principal operations located within the community served by
the cable operator; or
(C) to enforce any requirement of a franchise in effect on
the effective date of this title.
(2) The remedies and enforcement provisions of this section are
in addition to, and not in lieu of, those available under this or any
other law.
(3) The provisions of this section shall apply to any cable oper-
ator, whether operating pursuant to a franchise granted before, on,
or after the date of the enactment of this section.
SEC. 635. ø47 U.S.C. 555¿ JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
(a) Any cable operator adversely affected by any final deter-
mination made by a franchising authority under section 621(a)(1),
625 or 626 may commence an action within 120 days after receiv-
ing notice of such determination, which may be brought in—
(1) the district court of the United States for any judicial
district in which the cable system is located; or
(2) in any State court of general jurisdiction having juris-
diction over the parties.
(b) The court may award any appropriate relief consistent with
the provisions of the relevant section described in subsection (a)
and with the provisions of subsection (a).
(c)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any civil ac-
tion challenging the constitutionality of section 614 or 615 of this
Act or any provision thereof shall be heard by a district court of
three judges convened pursuant to the provisions of section 2284 of
title 28, United States Code.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an interlocu-
tory or final judgment, decree, or order of the court of three judges
in an action under paragraph (1) holding section 614 or 615 of this
Act or any provision thereof unconstitutional shall be reviewable as
a matter of right by direct appeal to the Supreme Court. Any such
appeal shall be filed not more than 20 days after entry of such
judgment, decree, or order.
SEC. 635A. ø47 U.S.C. 555a¿ LIMITATION OF FRANCHISING AUTHORITY
LIABILITY.
(a) SUITS FOR DAMAGES PROHIBITED.—In any court proceeding
pending on or initiated after the date of enactment of this section
involving any claim against a franchising authority or other gov-
ernmental entity, or any official, member, employee, or agent of
such authority or entity, arising from the regulation of cable serv-
ice or from a decision of approval or disapproval with respect to a
grant, renewal, transfer, or amendment of a franchise, any relief,
to the extent such relief is required by any other provision of Fed-
eral, State, or local law, shall be limited to injunctive relief and de-
claratory relief.
(b) EXCEPTION FOR COMPLETED CASES.—The limitation con-
tained in subsection (a) shall not apply to actions that, prior to
such violation, have been determined by a final order of a court of
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00367 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
368Sec. 636 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
binding jurisdiction, no longer subject to appeal, to be in violation
of a cable operator’s rights.
(c) DISCRIMINATION CLAIMS PERMITTED.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall be construed as limiting the relief authorized with re-
spect to any claim against a franchising authority or other govern-
mental entity, or any official, member, employee, or agent of such
authority or entity, to the extent such claim involves discrimination
on the basis of race, color, sex, age, religion, national origin, or
handicap.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section shall be
construed as creating or authorizing liability of any kind, under
any law, for any action or failure to act relating to cable service or
the granting of a franchise by any franchising authority or other
governmental entity, or any official, member, employee, or agent of
such authority or entity.
SEC. 636. ø47 U.S.C. 556¿ COORDINATION OF FEDERAL, STATE, AND
LOCAL AUTHORITY.
(a) Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect any author-
ity of any State, political subdivision, or agency thereof, or fran-
chising authority, regarding matters of public health, safety, and
welfare, to the extent consistent with the express provisions of this
title.(b) Nothing in this title shall be construed to restrict a State
from exercising jurisdiction with regard to cable services consistent
with this title.
(c) Except as provided in section 637, any provision of law of
any State, political subdivision, or agency thereof, or franchising
authority, or any provision of any franchise granted by such au-
thority, which is inconsistent with this Act shall be deemed to be
preempted and superseded.
(d) For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘State’’ has the mean-
ing given such term in section 3.
SEC. 637. ø47 U.S.C. 557¿ EXISTING FRANCHISES.
(a) The provisions of—
(1) any franchise in effect on the effective date of this title,
including any such provisions which relate to the designation,
use, or support for the use of channel capacity for public, edu-
cational, or governmental use, and
(2) any law of any State (as defined in section 3) in effect
on the date of the enactment of this section, or any regulation
promulgated pursuant to such law, which relates to such des-
ignation, use or support of such channel capacity,
shall remain in effect, subject to the express provisions of this title,
and for not longer than the then current remaining term of the
franchise as such franchise existed on such effective date.
(b) For purposes of subsection (a) and other provisions of this
title, a franchise shall be considered in effect on the effective date
of this title if such franchise was granted on or before such effective
date.
SEC. 638. ø47 U.S.C. 558¿ CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LIABILITY.
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to affect the criminal or
civil liability of cable programmers or cable operators pursuant to
the Federal, State, or local law of libel, slander, obscenity, incite-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00368 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
369 Sec. 642COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
ment, invasions of privacy, false or misleading advertising, or other
similar laws, except that cable operators shall not incur any such
liability for any program carried on any channel designated for
public, educational, governmental use or on any other channel ob-
tained under section 612 or under similar arrangements unless the
program involves obscene material.
SEC. 639. ø47 U.S.C. 559¿ OBSCENE PROGRAMMING.
Whoever transmits over any cable system any matter which is
obscene or otherwise unprotected by the Constitution of the United
States shall be fined under title 18, United States Code, or impris-
oned not more than 2 years, or both.
SEC. 640. ø47 U.S.C. 560¿ SCRAMBLING OF CABLE CHANNELS FOR NON-
SUBSCRIBERS.
(a) SUBSCRIBER REQUEST.—Upon request by a cable service
subscriber, a cable operator shall, without charge, fully scramble or
otherwise fully block the audio and video programming of each
channel carrying such programming so that one not a subscriber
does not receive it.
(b) DEFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘scramble’’
means to rearrange the content of the signal of the programming
so that the programming cannot be viewed or heard in an under-
standable manner.
SEC. 641. ø47 U.S.C. 561¿ SCRAMBLING OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT ADULT
VIDEO SERVICE PROGRAMMING.
(a) REQUIREMENT.—In providing sexually explicit adult pro-
gramming or other programming that is indecent on any channel
of its service primarily dedicated to sexually-oriented programming,
a multichannel video programming distributor shall fully scramble
or otherwise fully block the video and audio portion of such channel
so that one not a subscriber to such channel or programming does
not receive it.
(b) IMPLEMENTATION.—Until a multichannel video program-
ming distributor complies with the requirement set forth in sub-
section (a), the distributor shall limit the access of children to the
programming referred to in that subsection by not providing such
programming during the hours of the day (as determined by the
Commission) when a significant number of children are likely to
view it.
(c) D EFINITION.—As used in this section, the term ‘‘scramble’’
means to rearrange the content of the signal of the programming
so that the programming cannot be viewed or heard in an under-
standable manner.
SEC. 642. ø47 U.S.C. 562¿ REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CHARGES FOR
COVERED SERVICES.
(a) CONSUMER RIGHTS IN SALES.—
(1) RIGHT TO TRANSPARENCY.—Before entering into a con-
tract with a consumer for the provision of a covered service, a
provider of a covered service shall provide the consumer, by
phone, in person, online, or by other reasonable means, the
total monthly charge for the covered service, whether offered
individually or as part of a bundled service, selected by the
consumer (explicitly noting the amount of any applicable pro-
motional discount reflected in such charge and when such dis-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00369 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
370Sec. 642 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
count will expire), including any related administrative fees,
equipment fees, or other charges, a good faith estimate of any
tax, fee, or charge imposed by the Federal Government or a
State or local government (whether imposed on the provider or
imposed on the consumer but collected by the provider), and a
good faith estimate of any fee or charge that is used to recover
any other assessment imposed on the provider by the Federal
Government or a State or local government.
(2) RIGHT TO FORMAL NOTICE.—A provider of a covered
service that enters into a contract described in paragraph (1)
shall, not later than 24 hours after entering into the contract,
send the consumer, by email, online link, or other reasonably
comparable means, a copy of the information described in such
paragraph.
(3) RIGHT TO CANCEL.—A provider of a covered service that
enters into a contract described in paragraph (1) shall permit
the consumer to cancel the contract, without paying early can-
cellation fees or other disconnection fees or penalties, during
the 24-hour period beginning when the provider of the covered
service sends the copy required by paragraph (2).
(b) CONSUMER RIGHTS IN E-BILLING.—If a provider of a covered
service provides a bill to a consumer in an electronic format, the
provider shall include in the bill—
(1) an itemized statement that breaks down the total
amount charged for or relating to the provision of the covered
service by the amount charged for the provision of the service
itself and the amount of all related taxes, administrative fees,
equipment fees, or other charges;
(2) the termination date of the contract for the provision
of the covered service entered into between the consumer and
the provider; and
(3) the termination date of any applicable promotional dis-
count.
(c) C ONSUMER RIGHTS TO ACCURATE EQUIPMENT CHARGES.—A
provider of a covered service or fixed broadband internet access
service may not charge a consumer for—
(1) using covered equipment provided by the consumer; or
(2) renting, leasing, or otherwise providing to the con-
sumer covered equipment if—
(A) the provider has not provided the equipment to the
consumer; or
(B) the consumer has returned the equipment to the
provider, except to the extent that the charge relates to
the period beginning on the date when the provider pro-
vided the equipment to the consumer and ending on the
date when the consumer returned the equipment to the
provider.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—The term
‘‘broadband internet access service’’ has the meaning given
such term in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, or any successor regulation.
(2) COVERED EQUIPMENT.—The term ‘‘covered equipment’’
means equipment (such as a router) employed on the premises
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00370 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
371 Sec. 651COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
of a person (other than a provider of a covered service or fixed
broadband internet access service) to provide a covered service
or to provide fixed broadband internet access service.
(3) COVERED SERVICE.—The term ‘‘covered service’’ means
service provided by a multichannel video programming
distributer, to the extent such distributor is acting as a multi-
channel video programming distributor.
PART V—VIDEO PROGRAMMING SERVICES
PROVIDED BY TELEPHONE COMPANIES
SEC. 651. ø47 U.S.C. 571¿ REGULATORY TREATMENT OF VIDEO PRO-
GRAMMING SERVICES.
(a) LIMITATIONS ON CABLE REGULATION.—
(1) RADIO-BASED SYSTEMS.—To the extent that a common
carrier (or any other person) is providing video programming
to subscribers using radio communication, such carrier (or
other person) shall be subject to the requirements of title III
and section 652, but shall not otherwise be subject to the re-
quirements of this title.
(2) COMMON CARRIAGE OF VIDEO TRAFFIC.—To the extent
that a common carrier is providing transmission of video pro-
gramming on a common carrier basis, such carrier shall be
subject to the requirements of title II and section 652, but shall
not otherwise be subject to the requirements of this title. This
paragraph shall not affect the treatment under section
602(7)(C) of a facility of a common carrier as a cable system.
(3) CABLE SYSTEMS AND OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS.—To the ex-
tent that a common carrier is providing video programming to
its subscribers in any manner other than that described in
paragraphs (1) and (2)—
(A) such carrier shall be subject to the requirements of
this title, unless such programming is provided by means
of an open video system for which the Commission has ap-
proved a certification under section 653; or
(B) if such programming is provided by means of an
open video system for which the Commission has approved
a certification under section 653, such carrier shall be sub-
ject to the requirements of this part, but shall be subject
to parts I through IV of this title only as provided in
653(c).
(4) ELECTION TO OPERATE AS OPEN VIDEO SYSTEM.—A com-
mon carrier that is providing video programming in a manner
described in paragraph (1) or (2), or a combination thereof,
may elect to provide such programming by means of an open
video system that complies with section 653. If the Commission
approves such carrier’s certification under section 653, such
carrier shall be subject to the requirements of this part, but
shall be subject to parts I through IV of this title only as pro-
vided in 653(c).
(b) LIMITATIONS ON INTERCONNECTION OBLIGATIONS.—A local
exchange carrier that provides cable service through an open video
system or a cable system shall not be required, pursuant to title
II of this Act, to make capacity available on a nondiscriminatory
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00371 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
372Sec. 652 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
basis to any other person for the provision of cable service directly
to subscribers.
(c) ADDITIONAL REGULATORY RELIEF.—A common carrier shall
not be required to obtain a certificate under section 214 with re-
spect to the establishment or operation of a system for the delivery
of video programming.
SEC. 652. ø47 U.S.C. 572¿ PROHIBITION ON BUY OUTS.
(a) ACQUISITIONS BY CARRIERS.—No local exchange carrier or
any affiliate of such carrier owned by, operated by, controlled by,
or under common control with such carrier may purchase or other-
wise acquire directly or indirectly more than a 10 percent financial
interest, or any management interest, in any cable operator pro-
viding cable service within the local exchange carrier’s telephone
service area.
(b) ACQUISITIONS BY CABLE OPERATORS.—No cable operator or
affiliate of a cable operator that is owned by, operated by, con-
trolled by, or under common ownership with such cable operator
may purchase or otherwise acquire, directly or indirectly, more
than a 10 percent financial interest, or any management interest,
in any local exchange carrier providing telephone exchange service
within such cable operator’s franchise area.
(c) JOINT VENTURES.—A local exchange carrier and a cable op-
erator whose telephone service area and cable franchise area, re-
spectively, are in the same market may not enter into any joint
venture or partnership to provide video programming directly to
subscribers or to provide telecommunications services within such
market.
(d) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) RURAL SYSTEMS.—Notwithstanding subsections (a), (b),
and (c) of this section, a local exchange carrier (with respect to
a cable system located in its telephone service area) and a
cable operator (with respect to the facilities of a local exchange
carrier used to provide telephone exchange service in its cable
franchise area) may obtain a controlling interest in, manage-
ment interest in, or enter into a joint venture or partnership
with the operator of such system or facilities for the use of
such system or facilities to the extent that—
(A) such system or facilities only serve incorporated or
unincorporated—
(i) places or territories that have fewer than
35,000 inhabitants; and
(ii) are outside an urbanized area, as defined by
the Bureau of the Census; and
(B) in the case of a local exchange carrier, such sys-
tem, in the aggregate with any other system in which such
carrier has an interest, serves less than 10 percent of the
households in the telephone service area of such carrier.
(2) JOINT USE.—Notwithstanding subsection (c), a local ex-
change carrier may obtain, with the concurrence of the cable
operator on the rates, terms, and conditions, the use of that
part of the transmission facilities of a cable system extending
from the last multi-user terminal to the premises of the end
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00372 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
373 Sec. 652COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
user, if such use is reasonably limited in scope and duration,
as determined by the Commission.
(3) ACQUISITIONS IN COMPETITIVE MARKETS.—Notwith-
standing subsections (a) and (c), a local exchange carrier may
obtain a controlling interest in, or form a joint venture or other
partnership with, or provide financing to, a cable system (here-
inafter in this paragraph referred to as ‘‘the subject cable sys-
tem’’), if—
(A) the subject cable system operates in a television
market that is not in the top 25 markets, and such market
has more than 1 cable system operator, and the subject
cable system is not the cable system with the most sub-
scribers in such television market;
(B) the subject cable system and the cable system with
the most subscribers in such television market held on
May 1, 1995, cable television franchises from the largest
municipality in the television market and the boundaries
of such franchises were identical on such date;
(C) the subject cable system is not owned by or under
common ownership or control of any one of the 50 cable
system operators with the most subscribers as such opera-
tors existed on May 1, 1995; and
(D) the system with the most subscribers in the tele-
vision market is owned by or under common ownership or
control of any one of the 10 largest cable system operators
as such operators existed on May 1, 1995.
(4) EXEMPT CABLE SYSTEMS.—Subsection (a) does not apply
to any cable system if—
(A) the cable system serves no more than 17,000 cable
subscribers, of which no less than 8,000 live within an
urban area, and no less than 6,000 live within a nonurban-
ized area as of June 1, 1995;
(B) the cable system is not owned by, or under com-
mon ownership or control with, any of the 50 largest cable
system operators in existence on June 1, 1995; and
(C) the cable system operates in a television market
that was not in the top 100 television markets as of June
1, 1995.
(5) SMALL CABLE SYSTEMS IN NONURBAN AREAS.—Notwith-
standing subsections (a) and (c), a local exchange carrier with
less than $100,000,000 in annual operating revenues (or any
affiliate of such carrier owned by, operated by, controlled by,
or under common control with such carrier) may purchase or
otherwise acquire more than a 10 percent financial interest in,
or any management interest in, or enter into a joint venture
or partnership with, any cable system within the local ex-
change carrier’s telephone service area that serves no more
than 20,000 cable subscribers, if no more than 12,000 of those
subscribers live within an urbanized area, as defined by the
Bureau of the Census.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00373 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
374Sec. 653 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
56 So in law. Probably should be ‘‘subsection’’.
(6) WAIVERS.—The Commission may waive the restrictions
of subsections 56 (a), (b), or (c) only if—
(A) the Commission determines that, because of the
nature of the market served by the affected cable system
or facilities used to provide telephone exchange service—
(i) the affected cable operator or local exchange
carrier would be subjected to undue economic distress
by the enforcement of such provisions;
(ii) the system or facilities would not be economi-
cally viable if such provisions were enforced; or
(iii) the anticompetitive effects of the proposed
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public inter-
est by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting
the convenience and needs of the community to be
served; and
(B) the local franchising authority approves of such
waiver.
(e) D EFINITION OF TELEPHONE SERVICE AREA.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘‘telephone service area’’ when used in con-
nection with a common carrier subject in whole or in part to title
II of this Act means the area within which such carrier provided
telephone exchange service as of January 1, 1993, but if any com-
mon carrier after such date transfers its telephone exchange serv-
ice facilities to another common carrier, the area to which such fa-
cilities provide telephone exchange service shall be treated as part
of the telephone service area of the acquiring common carrier and
not of the selling common carrier.
SEC. 653. ø47 U.S.C. 573¿ ESTABLISHMENT OF OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS.
(a) OPEN VIDEO SYSTEMS.—
(1) CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE.—A local exchange car-
rier may provide cable service to its cable service subscribers
in its telephone service area through an open video system
that complies with this section. To the extent permitted by
such regulations as the Commission may prescribe consistent
with the public interest, convenience, and necessity, an oper-
ator of a cable system or any other person may provide video
programming through an open video system that complies with
this section. An operator of an open video system shall qualify
for reduced regulatory burdens under subsection (c) of this sec-
tion if the operator of such system certifies to the Commission
that such carrier complies with the Commission’s regulations
under subsection (b) and the Commission approves such certifi-
cation. The Commission shall publish notice of the receipt of
any such certification and shall act to approve or disapprove
any such certification within 10 days after receipt of such cer-
tification.
(2) DISPUTE RESOLUTION.—The Commission shall have the
authority to resolve disputes under this section and the regula-
tions prescribed thereunder. Any such dispute shall be resolved
within 180 days after notice of such dispute is submitted to the
Commission. At that time or subsequently in a separate dam-
ages proceeding, the Commission may, in the case of any viola-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00374 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
375 Sec. 653COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
tion of this section, require carriage, award damages to any
person denied carriage, or any combination of such sanctions.
Any aggrieved party may seek any other remedy available
under this Act.
(b) COMMISSION ACTIONS.—
(1) REGULATIONS REQUIRED.—Within 6 months after the
date of enactment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996, the
Commission shall complete all actions necessary (including any
reconsideration) to prescribe regulations that—
(A) except as required pursuant to section 611, 614, or
615, prohibit an operator of an open video system from dis-
criminating among video programming providers with re-
gard to carriage on its open video system, and ensure that
the rates, terms, and conditions for such carriage are just
and reasonable, and are not unjustly or unreasonably dis-
criminatory;
(B) if demand exceeds the channel capacity of the open
video system, prohibit an operator of an open video system
and its affiliates from selecting the video programming
services for carriage on more than one-third of the acti-
vated channel capacity on such system, but nothing in this
subparagraph shall be construed to limit the number of
channels that the carrier and its affiliates may offer to
provide directly to subscribers;
(C) permit an operator of an open video system to
carry on only one channel any video programming service
that is offered by more than one video programming pro-
vider (including the local exchange carrier’s video program-
ming affiliate): Provided, That subscribers have ready and
immediate access to any such video programming service;
(D) extend to the distribution of video programming
over open video systems the Commission’s regulations con-
cerning sports exclusivity (47 C.F.R. 76.67), network non-
duplication (47 C.F.R. 76.92 et seq.), and syndicated exclu-
sivity (47 C.F.R. 76.151 et seq.); and
(E)(i) prohibit an operator of an open video system
from unreasonably discriminating in favor of the operator
or its affiliates with regard to material or information (in-
cluding advertising) provided by the operator to sub-
scribers for the purposes of selecting programming on the
open video system, or in the way such material or informa-
tion is presented to subscribers;
(ii) require an operator of an open video system to en-
sure that video programming providers or copyright hold-
ers (or both) are able suitably and uniquely to identify
their programming services to subscribers;
(iii) if such identification is transmitted as part of the
programming signal, require the carrier to transmit such
identification without change or alteration; and
(iv) prohibit an operator of an open video system from
omitting television broadcast stations or other unaffiliated
video programming services carried on such system from
any navigational device, guide, or menu.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00375 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
376Sec. 653 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) CONSUMER ACCESS.—Subject to the requirements of
paragraph (1) and the regulations thereunder, nothing in this
section prohibits a common carrier or its affiliate from negoti-
ating mutually agreeable terms and conditions with over-the-
air broadcast stations and other unaffiliated video program-
ming providers to allow consumer access to their signals on
any level or screen of any gateway, menu, or other program
guide, whether provided by the carrier or its affiliate.
(c) REDUCED REGULATORY BURDENS FOR OPEN VIDEO SYS-
TEMS.— (1) I N GENERAL.—Any provision that applies to a cable op-
erator under—
(A) sections 613 (other than subsection (a) thereof),
616, 623(f), 628, 631, and 634 of this title, shall apply,
(B) sections 611, 614, and 615 of this title, and section
325 of title III, shall apply in accordance with the regula-
tions prescribed under paragraph (2), and
(C) sections 612 and 617, and parts III and IV (other
than sections 623(f), 628, 631, and 634), of this title shall
not apply,
to any operator of an open video system for which the Commis-
sion has approved a certification under this section.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION.—
(A) C OMMISSION ACTION.—In the rulemaking pro-
ceeding to prescribe the regulations required by subsection
(b)(1), the Commission shall, to the extent possible, impose
obligations that are no greater or lesser than the obliga-
tions contained in the provisions described in paragraph
(1)(B) of this subsection. The Commission shall complete
all action (including any reconsideration) to prescribe such
regulations no later than 6 months after the date of enact-
ment of the Telecommunications Act of 1996.
(B) FEES.—An operator of an open video system under
this part may be subject to the payment of fees on the
gross revenues of the operator for the provision of cable
service imposed by a local franchising authority or other
governmental entity, in lieu of the franchise fees permitted
under section 622. The rate at which such fees are im-
posed shall not exceed the rate at which franchise fees are
imposed on any cable operator transmitting video pro-
gramming in the franchise area, as determined in accord-
ance with regulations prescribed by the Commission. An
operator of an open video system may designate that por-
tion of a subscriber’s bill attributable to the fee under this
subparagraph as a separate item on the bill.
(3) REGULATORY STREAMLINING.—With respect to the es-
tablishment and operation of an open video system, the re-
quirements of this section shall apply in lieu of, and not in ad-
dition to, the requirements of title II.
(4) TREATMENT AS CABLE OPERATOR.—Nothing in this Act
precludes a video programming provider making use of an
open video system from being treated as an operator of a cable
system for purposes of section 111 of title 17, United States
Code.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00376 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
377 Sec. 704COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(d) DEFINITION OF TELEPHONE SERVICE AREA.—For purposes of
this section, the term ‘‘telephone service area’’ when used in con-
nection with a common carrier subject in whole or in part to title
II of this Act means the area within which such carrier is offering
telephone exchange service.
TITLE VII—MISCELLANEOUS
PROVISIONS
SEC. 701. ø47 U.S.C. 601¿ TRANSFER TO COMMISSION OF DUTIES, POW-
ERS, AND FUNCTIONS UNDER EXISTING LAW.
(a) All duties, powers, and functions of the Interstate Com-
merce Commission under the Act of August 7, 1888 (25 Stat. 382),
relating to operation of telegraph lines by railroad and telegraph
companies granted Government aid in the construction of their
lines, are hereby imposed upon and vested in the Commission: Pro-
vided, That such transfer of duties, powers, and functions shall not
be construed to affect the duties, powers, functions, or jurisdiction
of the Interstate Commerce Commission under, or to interfere with
or prevent the enforcement of, the Interstate Commerce Act and all
Acts amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto.
(b) All duties, powers, and functions of the Postmaster General
with respect to telegraph companies and telegraph lines under any
existing provision of law are hereby imposed upon and vested in
the Commission.
øSection 702 was repealed by Public Law 103–414, section
304(a)(13), 108 Stat. 4296–7.¿
øSection 703 was repealed by Public Law 103–414, section
304(a)(13), 108 Stat. 4296–7.¿
SEC. 704. ø47 U.S.C. 604¿ EFFECT OF TRANSFERS, REPEALS, AND
AMENDMENTS.
(a) All orders, determinations, rules, regulations, permits, con-
tracts, licenses, and privileges which have been issued, made, or
granted by the Interstate Commerce Commission, the Federal
Radio Commission, or the Postmaster General, under any provision
of law repealed or amended by this Act or in the exercise of duties,
powers, or functions transferred to the Commission by this Act,
and which are in effect at the time this section takes effect, shall
continue in effect until modified, terminated, superseded, or re-
pealed by the Commission or by operation of law.
(b) All records transferred to the Commission under this Act
shall be available for use by the Commission to the same extent as
if such records were originally records of the Commission. All final
valuations and determinations of depreciation charges by the Inter-
state Commerce Commission with respect to common carriers en-
gaged in radio or wire communication, and all orders of the Inter-
state Commerce Commission with respect to such valuations and
determinations, shall have the same force and effect as though
made by the Commission under this Act.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00377 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
378Sec. 705 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
57 18 U.S.C. § 2511(2) authorizes certain interception of communications by communications
common carriers and by the Federal Communications Commission. Also, electronic surveillance
for foreign intelligence purposes is addessed in Pub. Law No. 95–511, 92 Stat. 1783 (see
§§ 102(a)(4) and 105(f)(2)(C)), Oct. 25, 1978.
SEC. 705. ø47 U.S.C. 605¿ UNAUTHORIZED PUBLICATION OF COMMU-
NICATIONS.
(a) Except as authorized by chapter 119, title 18, United States
Code, 57 no person receiving, assisting in receiving, transmitting, or
assisting in transmitting, any interstate or foreign communication
by wire or radio shall divulge or publish the existence, contents,
substance, purport, effect, or meaning thereof, except through au-
thorized channels of transmission or reception, (1) to any person
other than the addressee, his agent, or attorney, (2) to a person
employed or authorized to forward such communication to its des-
tination, (3) to proper accounting or distributing officers of the var-
ious communicating centers over which the communication may be
passed, (4) to the master of a ship under whom he is serving, (5)
in response to a subpena issued by a court of competent jurisdic-
tion, or (6) on demand of other lawful authority. No person not
being authorized by the sender shall intercept any radio commu-
nication and divulge or publish the existence, contents, substance,
purport, effect, or meaning of such intercepted communication to
any person. No person not being entitled thereto shall receive or
assist in receiving any interstate or foreign communication by radio
and use such communication (or any information therein contained)
for his own benefit or for the benefit of another not entitled thereto.
No person having received any intercepted radio communication or
having become acquainted with the contents, substance, purport,
effect, or meaning of such communication (or any part thereof)
knowing that such communication was intercepted, shall divulge or
publish the existence, contents, substance, purport, effect, or mean-
ing of such communication (or any part thereof) or use such com-
munication (or any information therein contained) for his own ben-
efit or for the benefit of another not entitled thereto. This section
shall not apply to the receiving, divulging, publishing, or utilizing
the contents of any radio communication which is transmitted by
any station for the use of the general public, which relates to ships,
aircraft, vehicles, or persons in distress, or which is transmitted by
an amateur radio station operator or by a citizens band radio oper-
ator.(b) The provisions of subsection (a) shall not apply to the inter-
ception or receipt by any individual, or the assisting (including the
manufacture or sale) of such interception or receipt, of any satellite
cable programming for private viewing if—
(1) the programming involved is not encrypted; and
(2)(A) a marketing system is not established under
which— (i) an agent or agents have been lawfully designated
for the purpose of authorizing private viewing by individ-
uals, and
(ii) such authorization is available to the individual in-
volved from the appropriate agent or agents; or
(B) a marketing system described in subparagraph (A) is
established and the individuals receiving such programming
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00378 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
379 Sec. 705COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
58 Subsection (c) of section 705 (formerly section 605) was added by section 11 of Public Law
100–626 (the Public Telecommunications Act of 1988). Section 11 of that public law also redesig-
nated the following subsections as subsections (d) through (f). However, this redesignation was
not reflected in the amendments to those subsections contained in sections 204 and 205 of Public
Law 100–667 (the Satellite Home Viewer Act of 1988). This compilation executes those amend-
ments to the redesignated subsections.
has obtained authorization for private viewing under that sys-
tem.
(c) 58 No person shall encrypt or continue to encrypt satellite
delivered programs included in the National Program Service of the
Public Broadcasting Service and intended for public viewing by re-
transmission by television broadcast stations; except that as long
as at least one unencrypted satellite transmission of any program
subject to this subsection is provided, this subsection shall not pro-
hibit additional encrypted satellite transmissions of the same pro-
gram.
(d) For purposes of this section—
(1) the term ‘‘satellite cable programming’’ means video
programming which is transmitted via satellite and which is
primarily intended for the direct receipt by cable operators for
their retransmission to cable subscribers;
(2) the term ‘‘agent,’’ with respect to any person, includes
an employee of such person;
(3) the term ‘‘encrypt,’’ when used with respect to satellite
cable programming, means to transmit such programming in a
form whereby the aural and visual characteristics (or both) are
modified or altered for the purpose of preventing the unauthor-
ized receipt of such programming by persons without author-
ized equipment which is designed to eliminate the effects of
such modification or alteration;
(4) the term ‘‘private viewing’’ means the veiwing for pri-
vate use in an individual’s dwelling unit by means of equip-
ment, owned or operated by such individual, capable of receiv-
ing satellite cable programming directly from a satellite;
(5) the term ‘‘private financial gain’’ shall not include the
gain resulting to any individual for the private use of such in-
dividual’s dwelling unit of any programming for which the in-
dividual has not obtained authorization for that use; and
(6) the term ‘‘any person aggrieved’’ shall include any per-
son with proprietary rights in the intercepted communication
by wire or radio, including wholesale or retail distributors of
satellite cable programming, and, in the case of a violation of
paragraph (4) of subsection (e), shall also include any person
engaged in the lawful manufacture, distribution, or sale of
equipment necessary to authorize or receive satellite cable pro-
gramming.
(e)(1) Any person who willfully violates subsection (a) shall be
fined not more than $2,000 or imprisoned for not more than 6
months, or both.
(2) Any person who violates subsecton (a) willfully and for pur-
poses of direct or indirect commerical advantage or private finan-
cial gain shall be fined not more than $50,000 or imprisoned for not
more than 2 years, or both, for the first such conviction and shall
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00379 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
380Sec. 705 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
be fined not more than $100,000 or imprisoned for not more than
5 years, or both, for any subsequent conviction.
(3)(A) Any person aggrieved by any violation of subsection (a)
or paragraph (4) of this subsection may bring a civil action in a
United States district court or in any other court of competent ju-
risdiction.
(B) The court—
(i) may grant temporary and final injunctions on such
terms as it may deem reasonable to prevent or restrain viola-
tions of subsection (a);
(ii) may award damages as described in subparagraph (C);
and (iii) shall direct the recovery of full costs, including award-
ing reasonable attorneys’ fees to an aggrieved party who pre-
vails.
(C)(i) Damages awarded by any court under this section shall
be computed, at the election of the aggrieved party, in accordance
with either of the following subclauses;
(I) the party aggrieved may recover the actual damages
suffered by him as a result of the violation and any profits of
the violator that are attributable to the violation which are not
taken into account in computing the actual damages; in deter-
mining the violator’s profits, the party aggrieved shall be re-
quired to prove only the violator’s gross revenue, and the viola-
tor shall be required to prove his deductible expenses and the
elements of profit attributable to factors other than the viola-
tion; or
(II) the party aggrieved may recover an award of statutory
damages for each violation of subsection (a) involved in the ac-
tion in a sum of not less than $1,000 or more than $10,000,
as the court considers just, and for each violation of paragraph
(4) of this subsection involved in the action an aggrieved party
may recover statutory damages in a sum not less than $10,000,
or more than $100,000, as the court considers just.
(ii) In any case in which the court finds that the violation was
committed willfully and for purposes of direct or indirect commer-
cial advantage or private financial gain, the court in its discretion
may increase the award of damages, whether actual or statutory,
by an amount of not more than $100,000 for each violation of sub-
section (a).
(iii) In any case where the court finds that the violator was not
aware and had no reason to believe that his acts constituted a vio-
lation of this section, the court in its discretion may reduce the
award of damages to a sum of not less than $250.
(4) Any person who manufactures, assembles, modifies, im-
ports, exports, sells, or distributes any electronic, mechanical, or
other device or equipment, knowing or having reason to know that
the device or equipment is primarily of assistance in the unauthor-
ized decryption of satellite cable programming, or direct-to-home
satellite services, or is intended for any other activity prohibited by
subsection (a), shall be fined not more than $500,000 for each viola-
tion, or imprisoned for not more than 5 years for each violation, or
both. For purposes of all penalties and remedies established for vio-
lations of this paragraph, the prohibited activity established herein
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00380 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
381 Sec. 706COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
59 This compilation reflects amendments contained in section 304(a)(15) of the Communica-
tions Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (P.L. 103–414).
as it applies to each such device shall be deemed a separate viola-
tion.(5) The penalties under this subsection shall be in addition to
those prescribed under any other provision of this title.
(6) Nothing in this subsection shall prevent any State, or polit-
ical subdivision thereof, from enacting or enforcing any laws with
respect to the importation, sale, manufacture, or distribution of
equipment by any person with the intent of its use to assist in the
interception or receipt of radio communications prohibited by sub-
section (a).
(f) Nothing in this section shall affect any right, obligation, or
liability under title 17, United States Code, any rule, regulation, or
order thereunder, or any other applicable Federal, State, or local
law. (g) The Commission 59 shall initiate an inquiry concerning the
need for a universal encryption standard that permits decryption
of satellite cable programming intended for private viewing. In con-
ducting such inquiry, the Commission shall take into account—
(1) consumer costs and benefits of any such standard, in-
cluding consumer investment in equipment in operation;
(2) incorporation of technological enhancements, including
advanced television formats;
(3) whether any such standard would effectively prevent
present and future unauthorized decryption of satellite cable
programming;
(4) the costs and benefits of any such standard on other
authorized users of encrypted satellite cable programming, in-
cluding cable systems and satellite master antenna television
systems;
(5) the effect of any such standard on competition in the
manufacture of decryption equipment; and
(6) the impact of the time delay associated with the Com-
mission procedures necessary for establishment of such stand-
ards.
(h) If the Commission finds, based on the information gathered
from the inquiry required by subsection (g), that a universal
encryption standard is necessary and in the public interest, the
Commission shall initiate a rulemaking to establish such a stand-
ard.
SEC. 706. ø47 U.S.C. 606¿ WAR EMERGENCY—POWERS OF PRESIDENT.
(a) During the continuance of a war in which the United States
is engaged, the President is authorized, if he finds it necessary for
the national defense and security, to direct that such communica-
tions as in his judgment may be essential to the national defense
and security shall have preference or priority with any carrier sub-
ject to this Act. He may give these directions at and for such times
as he may determine, and may modify, change, suspend, or annul
them and for any such purpose he is hereby authorized to issue or-
ders directly, or through such person or persons as he designates
for the purpose, or through the Commission. Any carrier complying
with any such order or direction or preference or priority herein au-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00381 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
382Sec. 706 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
thorized shall be exempt from any and all provisions in existing
law imposing civil or criminal penalties, obligations, or liabilities
upon carriers by reason of giving preference or priority in compli-
ance with such order or direction.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person during any war in which
the United States is engaged to knowingly or willfully, by physical
force or intimidation by threats of physical force, obstruct or retard
or aid in obstructing or retarding interstate or foreign communica-
tion by radio or wire. The President is hereby authorized, whenever
in his judgment the public interest requires, to employ the armed
forces of the United States to prevent any such obstruction or re-
tardation of communication: Provided, That nothing in this section
shall be construed to repeal, modify, or affect either section 6 or
section 20 of the Act entitled ‘‘An Act to supplement existing laws
against unlawful restraints and monopolies, and for other pur-
poses’’, approved October 15, 1914.
(c) Upon proclamation by the President that there exists war
or a threat of war, or a state of public peril or disaster or other
national emergency, or in order to preserve the neutrality of the
United States, the President, if he deems it necessary in the inter-
est of national security or defense, may suspend or amend, for such
time as he may see fit, the rules and regulations applicable to any
or all stations or devices capable of emitting electromagnetic radi-
ations within the jurisdiction of the United States as prescribed by
the Commission, and may cause the closing of any station for radio
communication, or any device capable of emitting electromagnetic
radiations between 10 kilocycles and 100,000 megacycles, which is
suitable for use as a navigational aid beyond five miles, and the re-
moval therefrom of its apparatus and equipment, or he may au-
thorize the use or control of any such station or device and/or its
apparatus and equipment, by any department of the Government
under such regulations as he may prescribe upon just compensa-
tion to the owners. The authority granted to the President, under
this subsection, to cause the closing of any station or device and
the removal therefrom of its apparatus and equipment, or to au-
thorize the use or control of any station or device and/or its appa-
ratus and equipment, may be exercised in the Canal Zone.
(d) Upon proclamation by the President that there exists a
state or threat of war involving the United States, the President,
if he deems it necessary in the interest of the national security and
defense, may, during a period ending not later than six months
after the termination of such state or threat of war and not later
than such earlier date as the Congress by concurrent resolution
may designate, (1) suspend or amend the rules and regulations ap-
plicable to any or all facilities or stations for wire communication
within the jurisdiction of the United States as prescribed by the
Commission, (2) cause the closing of any facility or station for wire
communication and the removal therefrom of its apparatus and
equipment, or (3) authorize the use or control of any such facility
or station and its apparatus and equipment by any department of
the Government under such regulations as he may prescribe, upon
just compensation to the owners.
(e) The President shall ascertain the just compensation for
such use or control and certify the amount ascertained to Congress
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00382 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
383 Sec. 710COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
for appropriation and payment to the person entitled thereto. If the
amount so certified is unsatisfactory to the person entitled thereto,
such person shall be paid only 75 per centum of the amount and
shall be entitled to sue the United States to recover such further
sums as added to such payment of 75 per centum will make such
amount as will be just compensation for the use and control. Such
suit shall be brought in the manner provided by paragraph 20 of
section 24, or by section 145, of the Judicial Code, as amended.
(f) Nothing in subsection (c) or (d) shall be construed to amend,
repeal, impair, or effect existing laws or powers of the States in re-
lation to taxation or the lawful police regulations of the several
States, except wherein such laws, powers, or regulations may affect
the transmission of Government communications, or the issue of
stocks and bonds by any communication system or systems.
(g) Nothing in subsection (c) or (d) shall be construed to au-
thorize the President to make any amendment to the rules and reg-
ulations of the Commission which the Commission would not be
authorized by law to make; and nothing in subsection (d) shall be
construed to authorize the President to take any action the force
and effect of which shall continue beyond the date after which tak-
ing of such action would not have been authorized.
(h) Any person who willfully does or causes or suffers to be
done any act prohibited pursuant to the exercise of the President’s
authority under this section, or who willfully fails to do any act
which he is required to do pursuant to the exercise of the Presi-
dent’s authority under this section, or who willfully causes or suf-
fers such failure, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for
such offense by a fine of not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment
for not more than one year, or both, and, if a firm, partnership, as-
sociation, or corporation, by fine of not more than $5,000, except
that any person who commits such an offense with intent to injure
the United States, or with intent to secure an advantage to any for-
eign nation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine
of not more than $20,000 or by imprisonment for not more than 20
years, or both.
SEC. 707. ø47 U.S.C. 607¿ EFFECTIVE DATE OF ACT.
This Act shall take effect upon the organization of the Commis-
sion, except that this section and sections 1 and 4 shall take effect
July 1, 1934. The Commission shall be deemed to be organized
upon such date as four members of the Commission have taken of-
fice.
SEC. 708. ø47 U.S.C. 608¿ SEPARABILITY CLAUSE.
If any provision of this Act or the application thereof to any
person or circumstance is held invalid, the remainder of the Act
and the application of such provision to other persons or cir-
cumstances shall not be affected thereby.
SEC. 709. ø47 U.S.C. 609¿ SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Communications Act of 1934.’’
SEC. 710. ø47 U.S.C. 610¿ TELEPHONE SERVICE FOR THE DISABLED.
(a) The Commission shall establish such regulations as are
necessary to ensure reasonable access to telephone service by per-
sons with impaired hearing.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00383 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
384Sec. 710 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) and sub-
section (c), the Commission shall require that customer premises
equipment described in this paragraph provide internal means for
effective use with hearing aids that are designed to be compatible
with telephones which meet established technical standards for
hearing aid compatibility. Customer premises equipment described
in this paragraph are the following:
(A) All essential telephones.
(B) All telephones manufactured in the United States
(other than for export) more than one year after the date of en-
actment of the Hearing Aid Compatibility Act of 1988 or im-
ported for use in the United States more than one year after
such date.
(C) All customer premises equipment used with advanced
communications services that is designed to provide 2-way
voice communication via a built-in speaker intended to be held
to the ear in a manner functionally equivalent to a telephone,
subject to the regulations prescribed by the Commission under
subsection (e).
(2)(A) The regulations prescribed by the Commission under
paragraph (1) shall exempt from the requirements established pur-
suant to subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (1) only—
(i) telephones used with public mobile services;
(ii) telephones used with private radio services; and
(iii) secure telephones.
(B) The Commission shall periodically assess the appropriate-
ness of continuing in effect the exemptions for telephones and other
customer premises equipment described in subparagraph (A) of this
paragraph. The Commission shall revoke or otherwise limit any
such exemption if the Commission determines that—
(i) such revocation or limitation is in the public interest;
(ii) continuation of the exemption without such revocation
or limitation would have an adverse effect on hearing-impaired
individuals;
(iii) compliance with the requirements of subparagraph (B)
or (C) of paragraph (1) is technologically feasible for the tele-
phones to which the exemption applies; and
(iv) compliance with the requirements of subparagraph (B)
or (C) of paragraph (1) would not increase costs to such an ex-
tent that the telephones to which the exemption applies could
not be successfully marketed.
(3) The Commission may, upon the application of any inter-
ested person, initiate a proceeding to waive the requirements of
paragraph (1)(B) of this subsection with respect to new telephones,
or telephones associated with a new technology or service. The
Commission shall not grant such a waiver unless the Commission
determines, on the basis of evidence in the record of such pro-
ceeding, that such telephones, or such technology or service, are in
the public interest, and that (A) compliance with the requirements
of paragraph (1)(B) is technologically infeasible, or (B) compliance
with such requirements would increase the costs of the telephones,
or of the technology or service, to such an extent that such tele-
phones, technology, or service could not be successfully marketed.
In any proceeding under this paragraph to grant a waiver from the
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00384 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
385 Sec. 710COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
requirements of paragraph (1)(B), the Commission shall consider
the effect on hearing-impaired individuals of granting the waiver.
The Commission shall periodically review and determine the con-
tinuing need for any waiver granted pursuant to this paragraph.
(4) For purposes of this subsection—
(A) the term ‘‘essential telephones’’ means only coin-oper-
ated telephones, telephones provided for emergency use, and
other telephones frequently needed for use by persons using
such hearing aids;
(B) the term ‘‘telephones used with public mobile services’’
means telephones and other customer premises equipment
used in whole or in part with air-to-ground radiotelephone
services, cellular radio telecommunications services, offshore
radio, rural radio service, public land mobile telephone service,
or other common carrier radio communication services covered
by title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, or any function-
ally equivalent unlicensed wireless services;
(C) the term ‘‘telephones used with private radio services’’
means telephones and other customer premises equipment
used in whole or in part with private land mobile radio serv-
ices and other communications services characterized by the
Commission in its rules as private radio services; and
(D) the term ‘‘secure telephones’’ means telephones that
are approved by the United States Government for the trans-
mission of classified or sensitive voice communications.
(c) The Commission shall establish or approve such technical
standards as are required to enforce this section. A telephone or
other customer premises equipment that is compliant with relevant
technical standards developed through a public participation proc-
ess and in consultation with interested consumer stakeholders (des-
ignated by the Commission for the purposes of this section) will be
considered hearing aid compatible for purposes of this section, until
such time as the Commission may determine otherwise. The Com-
mission shall consult with the public, including people with hearing
loss, in establishing or approving such technical standards. The
Commission may delegate this authority to an employee pursuant
to section 5(c). The Commission shall remain the final arbiter as
to whether the standards meet the requirements of this section.
(d) The Commission shall establish such requirements for the
labeling of packaging materials for equipment as are needed to pro-
vide adequate information to consumers on the compatibility be-
tween telephones and hearing aids.
(e) In any rulemaking to implement the provisions of this sec-
tion, the Commission shall specifically consider the costs and bene-
fits to all telephone users, including persons with and without
hearing loss. The Commission shall ensure that regulations adopt-
ed to implement this section encourage the use of currently avail-
able technology and do not discourage or impair the development
of improved technology. In implementing the provisions of sub-
section (b)(1)(C), the Commission shall use appropriate timetables
or benchmarks to the extent necessary (1) due to technical feasi-
bility, or (2) to ensure the marketability or availability of new tech-
nologies to users.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00385 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
386Sec. 711 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
60 This section was added by Public Law 100–667, 102 Stat. 3949, Nov. 16, 1988, and, pursu-
ant to section 207 of that Act, ceased to be effective on December 31, 1994.
61 Subsection (a) was repealed by section 402(i)(11) of division P of Public Law 115–141.
(f) The Commission shall periodically review the regulations
established pursuant to this section. Except for coin-operated tele-
phones and telephones provided for emergency use, the Commis-
sion may not require the retrofitting of equipment to achieve the
purposes of this section.
(g) Any common carrier or connecting carrier may provide spe-
cialized terminal equipment needed by persons whose hearing,
speech, vision, or mobility is impaired. The State commission may
allow the carrier to recover in its tariffs for regulated service rea-
sonable and prudent costs not charged directly to users of such
equipment.
(h) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in the Twenty-First
Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010 shall
be construed to modify the Commission’s regulations set forth in
section 20.19 of title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulations, as in
effect on the date of enactment of such Act.
SEC. 711. ø47 U.S.C. 611¿ CLOSED-CAPTIONING OF PUBLIC SERVICE AN-
NOUNCEMENTS.
Any television public service announcement that is produced or
funded in whole or in part by any agency or instrumentality of Fed-
eral Government shall include closed captioning of the verbal con-
tent of such announcement. A television broadcast station li-
censee—
(1) shall not be required to supply closed captioning for
any such announcement that fails to include it; and
(2) shall not be liable for broadcasting any such announce-
ment without transmitting a closed caption unless the licensee
intentionally fails to transmit the closed caption that was in-
cluded with the announcement.
SEC. 712. ø47 U.S.C. 612¿ SYNDICATED EXCLUSIVITY.
(a) The Federal Communications Commission shall initiate a
combined inquiry and rulemaking proceeding for the purpose of—
(1) determining the feasibility of imposing syndicated ex-
clusivity rules with respect to the delivery of syndicated pro-
gramming (as defined by the Commission) for private home
viewing of secondary transmissions by satellite of broadcast
station signals similar to the rules issued by the Commission
with respect to syndicated exclusivity and cable television; and
(2) adopting such rules if the Commission considers the
imposition of such rules to be feasible.
(b) In the event that the Commission adopts such rules, any
willful and repeated secondary transmission made by a satellite
carrier to the public of a primary transmission embodying the per-
formance or display of a work which violates such Commission
rules shall be subject to the remedies, sanctions, and penalties pro-
vided by title V and section 705 of this Act. 60
SEC. 713. ø47 U.S.C. 613¿ VIDEO PROGRAMMING ACCESSIBILITY.
(b) 61 ACCOUNTABILITY CRITERIA.—Within 18 months after such
date of enactment, the Commission shall prescribe such regulations
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00386 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
387 Sec. 713COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
as are necessary to implement this section. Such regulations shall
ensure that—
(1) video programming first published or exhibited after
the effective date of such regulations is fully accessible through
the provision of closed captions, except as provided in sub-
section (d); and
(2) video programming providers or owners maximize the
accessibility of video programming first published or exhibited
prior to the effective date of such regulations through the pro-
vision of closed captions, except as provided in subsection (d).
(c) DEADLINES FOR CAPTIONING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The regulations prescribed pursuant to
subsection (b) shall include an appropriate schedule of dead-
lines for the provision of closed captioning of video program-
ming once published or exhibited on television.
(2) DEADLINES FOR PROGRAMMING DELIVERED USING INTER-
NET PROTOCOL.—
(A) REGULATIONS ON CLOSED CAPTIONING ON VIDEO
PROGRAMMING DELIVERED USING INTERNET PROTOCOL.—Not
later than 6 months after the submission of the report to
the Commission required by subsection (e)(1) of the Twen-
ty-First Century Communications and Video Accessibility
Act of 2010, the Commission shall revise its regulations to
require the provision of closed captioning on video pro-
gramming delivered using Internet protocol that was pub-
lished or exhibited on television with captions after the ef-
fective date of such regulations.
(B) SCHEDULE.—The regulations prescribed under this
paragraph shall include an appropriate schedule of dead-
lines for the provision of closed captioning, taking into ac-
count whether such programming is prerecorded and edit-
ed for Internet distribution, or whether such programming
is live or near-live and not edited for Internet distribution.
(C) COST.—The Commission may delay or waive the
regulation promulgated under subparagraph (A) to the ex-
tent the Commission finds that the application of the regu-
lation to live video programming delivered using Internet
protocol with captions after the effective date of such regu-
lations would be economically burdensome to providers of
video programming or program owners.
(D) REQUIREMENTS FOR REGULATIONS.—The regula-
tions prescribed under this paragraph—
(i) shall contain a definition of ‘‘near-live program-
ming’’ and ‘‘edited for Internet distribution’’;
(ii) may exempt any service, class of service, pro-
gram, class of program, equipment, or class of equip-
ment for which the Commission has determined that
the application of such regulations would be economi-
cally burdensome for the provider of such service, pro-
gram, or equipment;
(iii) shall clarify that, for the purposes of imple-
mentation, of this subsection, the terms ‘‘video pro-
gramming distributors’’ and ‘‘video programming pro-
viders’’ include an entity that makes available directly
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00387 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
388Sec. 713 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
to the end user video programming through a distribu-
tion method that uses Internet protocol;
(iv) and describe the responsibilities of video pro-
gramming providers or distributors and video pro-
gramming owners;
(v) shall establish a mechanism to make available
to video programming providers and distributors infor-
mation on video programming subject to the Act on an
ongoing basis;
(vi) shall consider that the video programming
provider or distributor shall be deemed in compliance
if such entity enables the rendering or pass through of
closed captions and makes a good faith effort to iden-
tify video programming subject to the Act using the
mechanism created in (v); and
(vii) shall provide that de minimis failure to com-
ply with such regulations by a video programming pro-
vider or owner shall not be treated as a violation of
the regulations.
(3) ALTERNATE MEANS OF COMPLIANCE.—An entity may
meet the requirements of this section through alternate means
than those prescribed by regulations pursuant to subsection
(b), as revised pursuant to paragraph (2)(A) of this subsection,
if the requirements of this section are met, as determined by
the Commission.
(d) E XEMPTIONS.—Notwithstanding subsection (b)—
(1) the Commission may exempt by regulation programs,
classes of programs, or services for which the Commission has
determined that the provision of closed captioning would be
economically burdensome to the provider or owner of such pro-
gramming;
(2) a provider of video programming or the owner of any
program carried by the provider shall not be obligated to sup-
ply closed captions if such action would be inconsistent with
contracts in effect on the date of enactment of the Tele-
communications Act of 1996, except that nothing in this section
shall be construed to relieve a video programming provider of
its obligations to provide services required by Federal law; and
(3) a provider of video programming or program owner
may petition the Commission for an exemption from the re-
quirements of this section, and the Commission may grant
such petition upon a showing that the requirements contained
in this section would be economically burdensome. During the
pendency of such a petition, such provider or owner shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section. The Commission
shall act to grant or deny any such petition, in whole or in
part, within 6 months after the Commission receives such peti-
tion, unless the Commission finds that an extension of the 6-
month period is necessary to determine whether such require-
ments are economically burdensome.
(e) UNDUE BURDEN.—The term ‘‘undue burden’’ means signifi-
cant difficulty or expense. In determining whether the closed cap-
tions necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00388 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
389 Sec. 713COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
would result in an undue economic burden, the factors to be consid-
ered include—
(1) the nature and cost of the closed captions for the pro-
gramming;
(2) the impact on the operation of the provider or program
owner;
(3) the financial resources of the provider or program
owner; and
(4) the type of operations of the provider or program
owner.
(f) VIDEO DESCRIPTION.—
(1) REINSTATEMENT OF REGULATIONS.—On the day that is
1 year after the date of enactment of the Twenty-First Century
Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, the Com-
mission shall, after a rulemaking, reinstate its video descrip-
tion regulations contained in the Implementation of Video De-
scription of Video Programming Report and Order (15 F.C.C.R.
15,230 (2000)), recon. granted in part and denied in part, (16
F.C.C.R. 1251 (2001)), modified as provided in paragraph (2).
(2) M ODIFICATIONS TO REINSTATED REGULATIONS.—Such
regulations shall be modified only as follows:
(A) The regulations shall apply to video programming,
as defined in subsection (h), insofar as such programming
is transmitted for display on television in digital format.
(B) The Commission shall update the list of the top 25
designated market areas, the list of the top 5 national non-
broadcast networks that have at least 50 hours per quar-
ter of prime time programming that is not exempt under
this paragraph, and the beginning calendar quarter for
which compliance shall be calculated.
(C) The regulations may permit a provider of video
programming or a program owner to petition the Commis-
sion for an exemption from the requirements of this sec-
tion upon a showing that the requirements contained in
this section be economically burdensome.
(D) The Commission may exempt from the regulations
established pursuant to paragraph (1) a service, class of
services, program, class of programs, equipment, or class of
equipment for which the Commission has determined that
the application of such regulations would be economically
burdensome for the provider of such service, program, or
equipment.
(E) The regulations shall not apply to live or near-live
programming.
(F) The regulations shall provide for an appropriate
phased schedule of deadlines for compliance.
(G) The Commission shall consider extending the ex-
emptions and limitations in the reinstated regulations for
technical capability reasons to all providers and owners of
video programming.
(3) INQUIRIES ON FURTHER VIDEO DESCRIPTION REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The Commission shall commence the following inquir-
ies not later than 1 year after the completion of the phase-in
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00389 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
390Sec. 713 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
of the reinstated regulations and shall report to Congress 1
year thereafter on the findings for each of the following:
(A) VIDEO DESCRIPTION IN TELEVISION PROGRAM-
MING.—The availability, use, and benefits of video descrip-
tion on video programming distributed on television, the
technical and creative issues associated with providing
such video description, and the financial costs of providing
such video description for providers of video programming
and program owners.
(B) VIDEO DESCRIPTION IN VIDEO PROGRAMMING DIS-
TRIBUTED ON THE INTERNET.—The technical and oper-
ational issues, costs, and benefits of providing video de-
scriptions for video programming that is delivered using
Internet protocol.
(4) CONTINUING COMMISSION AUTHORITY.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission may not issue addi-
tional regulations unless the Commission determines, at
least 2 years after completing the reports required in para-
graph (3), that the need for and benefits of providing video
description for video programming, insofar as such pro-
gramming is transmitted for display on television, are
greater than the technical and economic costs of providing
such additional programming.
(B) LIMITATION.—If the Commission makes the deter-
mination under subparagraph (A) and issues additional
regulations, the Commission may not increase, in total, the
hour requirement for additional described programming by
more than 75 percent of the requirement in the regulations
reinstated under paragraph (1).
(C) APPLICATION TO DESIGNATED MARKET AREAS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—After the Commission completes
the reports on video description required in paragraph
(3), the Commission shall phase in the video descrip-
tion regulations for the top 60 designated market
areas, except that the Commission may grant waivers
to entities in specific designated market areas where
it deems appropriate.
(ii) PHASE-IN DEADLINE.—The phase-in described
in clause (i) shall be completed not later than 6 years
after the date of enactment of the Twenty-First Cen-
tury Communications and Video Accessibility Act of
2010.
(iii) REPORT.—Nine years after the date of enact-
ment of the Twenty-First Century Communications
and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, the Commission
shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of
the Senate a report assessing—
(I) the types of described video programming
that is available to consumers;
(II) consumer use of such programming;
(III) the costs to program owners, providers,
and distributors of creating such programming;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00390 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
391 Sec. 713COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(IV) the potential costs to program owners,
providers, and distributors in designated market
areas outside of the top 60 of creating such pro-
gramming;
(V) the benefits to consumers of such pro-
gramming;
(VI) the amount of such programming cur-
rently available; and
(VII) the need for additional described pro-
gramming in designated market areas outside the
top 60.
(iv) ADDITIONAL MARKET AREAS.—Ten years after
the date of enactment of the Twenty-First Century
Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010,
the Commission shall have the authority, based upon
the findings, conclusions, and recommendations con-
tained in the report under clause (iii), to phase in the
video description regulations for up to an additional 10
designated market areas each year—
(I) if the costs of implementing the video de-
scription regulations to program owners, pro-
viders, and distributors in those additional mar-
kets are reasonable, as determined by the Com-
mission; and
(II) except that the Commission may grant
waivers to entities in specific designated market
areas where it deems appropriate.
(g) EMERGENCY INFORMATION.—Not later than 1 year after the
Advisory Committee report under subsection (e)(2) is submitted to
the Commission, the Commission shall complete a proceeding to—
(1) identify methods to convey emergency information (as
that term is defined in section 79.2 of title 47, Code of Federal
Regulations) in a manner accessible to individuals who are
blind or visually impaired; and
(2) promulgate regulations that require video programming
providers and video programming distributors (as those terms
are defined in section 79.1 of title 47, Code of Federal Regula-
tions) and program owners to convey such emergency informa-
tion in a manner accessible to individuals who are blind or vis-
ually impaired.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section, section 303, and
section 330:
(1) VIDEO DESCRIPTION.—The term ‘‘video description’’
means the insertion of audio narrated descriptions of a tele-
vision program’s key visual elements into natural pauses be-
tween the program’s dialogue.
(2) VIDEO PROGRAMMING.—The term ‘‘video programming’’
means programming by, or generally considered comparable to
programming provided by a television broadcast station, but
not including consumer-generated media (as defined in section
3).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00391 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
392Sec. 714 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
62 So in law. There is no subsection (i) in section 713.
(j) 62 PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACTIONS PROHIBITED.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to authorize any private right of ac-
tion to enforce any requirement of this section or any regulation
thereunder. The Commission shall have exclusive jurisdiction with
respect to any complaint under this section.
SEC. 714. ø47 U.S.C. 614¿ TELECOMMUNICATIONS DEVELOPMENT
FUND.
(a) PURPOSE OF SECTION.—It is the purpose of this section—
(1) to promote access to capital for small businesses in
order to enhance competition in the telecommunications indus-
try;
(2) to stimulate new technology development, and promote
employment and training; and
(3) to support universal service and promote delivery of
telecommunications services to underserved rural and urban
areas.
(b) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.—There is hereby established a
body corporate to be known as the Telecommunications Develop-
ment Fund, which shall have succession until dissolved. The Fund
shall maintain its principal office in the District of Columbia and
shall be deemed, for purposes of venue and jurisdiction in civil ac-
tions, to be a resident and citizen thereof.
(c) INDEPENDENT BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—The Fund shall have
a Board of Directors consisting of 5 people with experience in areas
including finance, investment banking, government banking, com-
munications law and administrative practice, and public policy.
The Board of Directors shall select annually a Chair from among
the directors. A nominating committee, comprised of the Chair and
2 other directors selected by the Chair, shall appoint additional di-
rectors. The Fund’s bylaws shall regulate the other aspects of the
Board of Directors, including provisions relating to meetings,
quorums, committees, and other matters, all as typically contained
in the bylaws of a similar private investment fund.
(d) ACCOUNTS OF THE FUND.—The Fund shall maintain its ac-
counts at a financial institution designated for purposes of this sec-
tion by the Chairman of the Board. The accounts of the Fund shall
consist of—
(1) such sums as may be appropriated to the Commission
for advances to the Fund;
(2) any contributions or donations to the Fund that are ac-
cepted by the Fund; and
(3) any repayment of, or other payment made with respect
to, loans, equity, or other extensions of credit made from the
Fund.
(e) USE OF THE FUND.—All moneys deposited into the accounts
of the Fund shall be used solely for—
(1) the making of loans, investments, or other extensions
of credits to eligible small businesses in accordance with sub-
section (f);
(2) the provision of financial advice to eligible small busi-
nesses;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00392 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
393 Sec. 714COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
63 So in law. Probably should be ‘‘Fund’’.
(3) expenses for the administration and management of
the Fund (including salaries, expenses, and the rental or pur-
chase of office space for the fund 63 );
(4) preparation of research, studies, or financial analyses;
and (5) other services consistent with the purposes of this sec-
tion.
(f) LENDING AND CREDIT OPERATIONS.—Loans or other exten-
sions of credit from the Fund shall be made available to an eligible
small business on the basis of—
(1) the analysis of the business plan of the eligible small
business;
(2) the reasonable availability of collateral to secure the
loan or credit extension;
(3) the extent to which the loan or credit extension pro-
motes the purposes of this section; and
(4) other lending policies as defined by the Board.
(g) R ETURN OF ADVANCES.—Any advances appropriated pursu-
ant to subsection (d)(1) shall be disbursed upon such terms and
conditions (including conditions relating to the time or times of re-
payment) as are specified in any appropriations Act providing such
advances.
(h) GENERAL CORPORATE POWERS.—The Fund shall have
power— (1) to sue and be sued, complain and defend, in its cor-
porate name and through its own counsel;
(2) to adopt, alter, and use the corporate seal, which shall
be judicially noticed;
(3) to adopt, amend, and repeal by its Board of Directors,
bylaws, rules, and regulations as may be necessary for the con-
duct of its business;
(4) to conduct its business, carry on its operations, and
have officers and exercise the power granted by this section in
any State without regard to any qualification or similar statute
in any State;
(5) to lease, purchase, or otherwise acquire, own, hold, im-
prove, use, or otherwise deal in and with any property, real,
personal, or mixed, or any interest therein, wherever situated,
for the purposes of the Fund;
(6) to accept gifts or donations of services, or of property,
real, personal, or mixed, tangible or intangible, in aid of any
of the purposes of the Fund;
(7) to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange, and
otherwise dispose of its property and assets;
(8) to appoint such officers, attorneys, employees, and
agents as may be required, to determine their qualifications, to
define their duties, to fix their salaries, require bonds for them,
and fix the penalty thereof; and
(9) to enter into contracts, to execute instruments, to incur
liabilities, to make loans and equity investment, and to do all
things as are necessary or incidental to the proper manage-
ment of its affairs and the proper conduct of its business.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00393 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
394Sec. 715 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(i) ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, AND REPORTING.—The accounts of
the Fund shall be audited annually. Such audits shall be conducted
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by inde-
pendent certified public accountants. A report of each such audit
shall be furnished to the Secretary of the Treasury and the Com-
mission. The representatives of the Secretary and the Commission
shall have access to all books, accounts, financial records, reports,
files, and all other papers, things, or property belonging to or in
use by the Fund and necessary to facilitate the audit.
(j) REPORT ON AUDITS BY TREASURY.—A report of each such
audit for a fiscal year shall be made by the Secretary of the Treas-
ury to the President and to the Congress not later than 6 months
following the close of such fiscal year. The report shall set forth the
scope of the audit and shall include a statement of assets and li-
abilities, capital and surplus or deficit; a statement of surplus or
deficit analysis; a statement of income and expense; a statement of
sources and application of funds; and such comments and informa-
tion as may be deemed necessary to keep the President and the
Congress informed of the operations and financial condition of the
Fund, together with such recommendations with respect thereto as
the Secretary may deem advisable.
(k) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
(1) ELIGIBLE SMALL BUSINESS.—The term ‘‘eligible small
business’’ means business enterprises engaged in the tele-
communications industry that have $50,000,000 or less in an-
nual revenues, on average over the past 3 years prior to sub-
mitting the application under this section.
(2) FUND.—The term ‘‘Fund’’ means the Telecommuni-
cations Development Fund established pursuant to this sec-
tion.
(3) TELECOMMUNICATIONS INDUSTRY.—The term ‘‘tele-
communications industry’’ means communications businesses
using regulated or unregulated facilities or services and in-
cludes broadcasting, telecommunications, cable, computer, data
transmission, software, programming, advanced messaging,
and electronics businesses.
SEC. 715. ø47 U.S.C. 616¿ INTERNET PROTOCOL-BASED RELAY SERV-
ICES.
Within one year after the date of enactment of the Twenty-
First Century Communications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010,
each interconnected VoIP service provider and each provider of
non-interconnected VoIP service shall participate in and contribute
to the Telecommunications Relay Services Fund established in sec-
tion 64.604(c)(5)(iii) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, as in
effect on the date of enactment of such Act, in a manner prescribed
by the Commission by regulation to provide for obligations of such
providers that are consistent with and comparable to the obliga-
tions of other contributors to such Fund.
SEC. 716. ø47 U.S.C. 617¿ ACCESS TO ADVANCED COMMUNICATIONS
SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT.
(a) MANUFACTURING.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—With respect to equipment manufactured
after the effective date of the regulations established pursuant
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00394 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
395 Sec. 716COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
to subsection (e), and subject to those regulations, a manufac-
turer of equipment used for advanced communications services,
including end user equipment, network equipment, and soft-
ware, shall ensure that the equipment and software that such
manufacturer offers for sale or otherwise distributes in inter-
state commerce shall be accessible to and usable by individuals
with disabilities, unless the requirements of this subsection are
not achievable.
(2) INDUSTRY FLEXIBILITY.—A manufacturer of equipment
may satisfy the requirements of paragraph (1) with respect to
such equipment by—
(A) ensuring that the equipment that such manufac-
turer offers is accessible to and usable by individuals with
disabilities without the use of third party applications, pe-
ripheral devices, software, hardware, or customer premises
equipment; or
(B) if such manufacturer chooses, using third party ap-
plications, peripheral devices, software, hardware, or cus-
tomer premises equipment that is available to the con-
sumer at nominal cost and that individuals with disabil-
ities can access.
(b) SERVICE PROVIDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—With respect to services provided after
the effective date of the regulations established pursuant to
subsection (e), and subject to those regulations, a provider of
advanced communications services shall ensure that such serv-
ices offered by such provider in or affecting interstate com-
merce are accessible to and usable by individuals with disabil-
ities, unless the requirements of this subsection are not achiev-
able.
(2) INDUSTRY FLEXIBILITY.—A provider of services may sat-
isfy the requirements of paragraph (1) with respect to such
services by—
(A) ensuring that the services that such provider offers
are accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities
without the use of third party applications, peripheral de-
vices, software, hardware, or customer premises equip-
ment; or
(B) if such provider chooses, using third party applica-
tions, peripheral devices, software, hardware, or customer
premises equipment that is available to the consumer at
nominal cost and that individuals with disabilities can ac-
cess.
(c) COMPATIBILITY.—Whenever the requirements of subsections
(a) or (b) are not achievable, a manufacturer or provider shall en-
sure that its equipment or service is compatible with existing pe-
ripheral devices or specialized customer premises equipment com-
monly used by individuals with disabilities to achieve access, un-
less the requirement of this subsection is not achievable.
(d) NETWORK FEATURES, FUNCTIONS, AND CAPABILITIES.—Each
provider of advanced communications services has the duty not to
install network features, functions, or capabilities that impede ac-
cessibility or usability.
(e) REGULATIONS.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00395 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
396Sec. 716 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) IN GENERAL.—Within one year after the date of enact-
ment of the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video
Accessibility Act of 2010, the Commission shall promulgate
such regulations as are necessary to implement this section. In
prescribing the regulations, the Commission shall—
(A) include performance objectives to ensure the acces-
sibility, usability, and compatibility of advanced commu-
nications services and the equipment used for advanced
communications services by individuals with disabilities;
(B) provide that advanced communications services,
the equipment used for advanced communications services,
and networks used to provide advanced communications
services may not impair or impede the accessibility of in-
formation content when accessibility has been incorporated
into that content for transmission through advanced com-
munications services, equipment used for advanced com-
munications services, or networks used to provide ad-
vanced communications services;
(C) determine the obligations under this section of
manufacturers, service providers, and providers of applica-
tions or services accessed over service provider networks;
and (D) not mandate technical standards, except that the
Commission may adopt technical standards as a safe har-
bor for such compliance if necessary to facilitate the manu-
facturers’ and service providers’ compliance with sections
(a) through (c).
(2) PROSPECTIVE GUIDELINES.—The Commission shall issue
prospective guidelines for a manufacturer or provider regard-
ing the requirements of this section.
(f) SERVICES AND EQUIPMENT SUBJECT TO SECTION 255.—The
requirements of this section shall not apply to any equipment or
services, including interconnected VoIP service, that are subject to
the requirements of section 255 on the day before the date of enact-
ment of the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Ac-
cessibility Act of 2010. Such services and equipment shall remain
subject to the requirements of section 255.
(g) ACHIEVABLE DEFINED.—For purposes of this section and
section 718, the term ‘‘achievable’’ means with reasonable effort or
expense, as determined by the Commission. In determining wheth-
er the requirements of a provision are achievable, the Commission
shall consider the following factors:
(1) The nature and cost of the steps needed to meet the re-
quirements of this section with respect to the specific equip-
ment or service in question.
(2) The technical and economic impact on the operation of
the manufacturer or provider and on the operation of the spe-
cific equipment or service in question, including on the devel-
opment and deployment of new communications technologies.
(3) The type of operations of the manufacturer or provider.
(4) The extent to which the service provider or manufac-
turer in question offers accessible services or equipment con-
taining varying degrees of functionality and features, and of-
fered at differing price points.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00396 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
397 Sec. 717COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(h) COMMISSION FLEXIBILITY.—
(1) WAIVER.—The Commission shall have the authority, on
its own motion or in response to a petition by a manufacturer
or provider of advanced communications services or any inter-
ested party, to waive the requirements of this section for any
feature or function of equipment used to provide or access ad-
vanced communications services, or for any class of such equip-
ment, for any provider of advanced communications services, or
for any class of such services, that—
(A) is capable of accessing an advanced communica-
tions service; and
(B) is designed for multiple purposes, but is designed
primarily for purposes other than using advanced commu-
nications services.
(2) SMALL ENTITY EXEMPTION.—The Commission may ex-
empt small entities from the requirements of this section.
(i) CUSTOMIZED EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES.—The provisions of
this section shall not apply to customized equipment or services
that are not offered directly to the public, or to such classes of
users as to be effectively available directly to the public, regardless
of the facilities used.
(j) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This section shall not be con-
strued to require a manufacturer of equipment used for advanced
communications or a provider of advanced communications services
to make every feature and function of every device or service acces-
sible for every disability.
SEC. 717. ø47 U.S.C. 618¿ ENFORCEMENT AND RECORDKEEPING OBLI-
GATIONS.
(a) COMPLAINT AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.—Within one
year after the date of enactment of the Twenty-First Century Com-
munications and Video Accessibility Act of 2010, the Commission
shall establish regulations that facilitate the filing of formal and
informal complaints that allege a violation of section 255, 716, or
718, establish procedures for enforcement actions by the Commis-
sion with respect to such violations, and implement the record-
keeping obligations of paragraph (5) for manufacturers and pro-
viders subject to such sections. Such regulations shall include the
following provisions:
(1) NO FEE.—The Commission shall not charge any fee to
an individual who files a complaint alleging a violation of sec-
tion 255, 716, or 718.
(2) RECEIPT OF COMPLAINTS.—The Commission shall estab-
lish separate and identifiable electronic, telephonic, and phys-
ical receptacles for the receipt of complaints filed under section
255, 716, or 718.
(3) COMPLAINTS TO THE COMMISSION.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—Any person alleging a violation of
section 255, 716, or 718 by a manufacturer of equipment
or provider of service subject to such sections may file a
formal or informal complaint with the Commission.
(B) INVESTIGATION OF INFORMAL COMPLAINT.—The
Commission shall investigate the allegations in an infor-
mal complaint and, within 180 days after the date on
which such complaint was filed with the Commission,
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00397 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
398Sec. 717 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
issue an order concluding the investigation, unless such
complaint is resolved before such time. The order shall in-
clude a determination whether any violation occurred.
(i) If the Commission determines that a violation
has occurred, the Commission may, in the order issued
under this subparagraph or in a subsequent order, di-
rect the manufacturer or service provider to bring the
service, or in the case of a manufacturer, the next gen-
eration of the equipment or device, into compliance
with requirements of those sections within a reason-
able time established by the Commission in its order.
(ii) NO VIOLATION.—If a determination is made
that a violation has not occurred, the Commission
shall provide the basis for such determination.
(C) CONSOLIDATION OF COMPLAINTS.—The Commission
may consolidate for investigation and resolution com-
plaints alleging substantially the same violation.
(4) OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND.—Before the Commission
makes a determination pursuant to paragraph (3), the party
that is the subject of the complaint shall have a reasonable op-
portunity to respond to such complaint, and may include in
such response any factors that are relevant to such determina-
tion. Before issuing a final order under paragraph (3)(B)(i), the
Commission shall provide such party a reasonable opportunity
to comment on any proposed remedial action.
(5) RECORDKEEPING.—(A) Beginning one year after the ef-
fective date of regulations promulgated pursuant to section
716(e), each manufacturer and provider subject to sections 255,
716, and 718 shall maintain, in the ordinary course of business
and for a reasonable period, records of the efforts taken by
such manufacturer or provider to implement sections 255, 716,
and 718, including the following:
(i) Information about the manufacturer’s or pro-
vider’s efforts to consult with individuals with disabil-
ities.
(ii) Descriptions of the accessibility features of its
products and services.
(iii) Information about the compatibility of such
products and services with peripheral devices or spe-
cialized customer premise equipment commonly used
by individuals with disabilities to achieve access.
(B) An officer of a manufacturer or provider shall submit
to the Commission an annual certification that records are
being kept in accordance with subparagraph (A).
(C) After the filing of a formal or informal complaint
against a manufacturer or provider, the Commission may re-
quest, and shall keep confidential, a copy of the records main-
tained by such manufacturer or provider pursuant to subpara-
graph (A) of this paragraph that are directly relevant to the
equipment or service that is the subject of such complaint.
(6) FAILURE TO ACT.—If the Commission fails to carry out
any of its responsibilities to act upon a complaint in the man-
ner prescribed in paragraph (3), the person that filed such
complaint may bring an action in the nature of mandamus in
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00398 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
399 Sec. 717COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia
to compel the Commission to carry out any such responsibility.
(7) COMMISSION JURISDICTION.—The limitations of section
255(f) shall apply to any claim that alleges a violation of sec-
tion 255, 716, or 718. Nothing in this paragraph affects or lim-
its any action for mandamus under paragraph (6) or any ap-
peal pursuant to section 402(b)(10).
(8) PRIVATE RESOLUTIONS OF COMPLAINTS.—Nothing in the
Commission’s rules or this Act shall be construed to preclude
a person who files a complaint and a manufacturer or provider
from resolving a formal or informal complaint prior to the
Commission’s final determination in a complaint proceeding. In
the event of such a resolution, the parties shall jointly request
dismissal of the complaint and the Commission shall grant
such request.
(b) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Every two years after the date of enact-
ment of the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video
Accessibility Act of 2010, the Commission shall submit to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives a report that includes the following:
(A) An assessment of the level of compliance with sec-
tions 255, 716, and 718.
(B) An evaluation of the extent to which any accessi-
bility barriers still exist with respect to new communica-
tions technologies.
(C) The number and nature of complaints received
pursuant to subsection (a) during the two years that are
the subject of the report.
(D) A description of the actions taken to resolve such
complaints under this section, including forfeiture pen-
alties assessed.
(E) The length of time that was taken by the Commis-
sion to resolve each such complaint.
(F) The number, status, nature, and outcome of any
actions for mandamus filed pursuant to subsection (a)(6)
and the number, status, nature, and outcome of any ap-
peals filed pursuant to section 402(b)(10).
(G) An assessment of the effect of the requirements of
this section on the development and deployment of new
communications technologies.
(2) PUBLIC COMMENT REQUIRED.—The Commission shall
seek public comment on its tentative findings prior to submis-
sion to the Committees of the report under this subsection.
(c) COMPTROLLER GENERAL ENFORCEMENT STUDY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General shall conduct a
study to consider and evaluate the following:
(A) The Commission’s compliance with the require-
ments of this section, including the Commission’s level of
compliance with the deadlines established under and pur-
suant to this section and deadlines for acting on com-
plaints pursuant to subsection (a).
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00399 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
400Sec. 718 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) Whether the enforcement actions taken by the
Commission pursuant to this section have been appro-
priate and effective in ensuring compliance with this sec-
tion.
(C) Whether the enforcement provisions under this
section are adequate to ensure compliance with this sec-
tion.
(D) Whether, and to what extent (if any), the require-
ments of this section have an effect on the development
and deployment of new communications technologies.
(2) REPORT.—Not later than 5 years after the date of en-
actment of the Twenty-First Century Communications and
Video Accessibility Act of 2010, the Comptroller General shall
submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives a report on the results
of the study required by paragraph (1), with recommendations
for how the enforcement process and measures under this sec-
tion may be modified or improved.
(d) CLEARINGHOUSE.—Within one year after the date of enact-
ment of the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Ac-
cessibility Act of 2010, the Commission shall, in consultation with
the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board,
the National Telecommunications and Information Administration,
trade associations, and organizations representing individuals with
disabilities, establish a clearinghouse of information on the avail-
ability of accessible products and services and accessibility solu-
tions required under sections 255, 716, and 718. Such information
shall be made publicly available on the Commission’s website and
by other means, and shall include an annually updated list of prod-
ucts and services with access features.
(e) OUTREACH AND EDUCATION.—Upon establishment of the
clearinghouse of information required under subsection (d), the
Commission, in coordination with the National Telecommunications
and Information Administration, shall conduct an informational
and educational program designed to inform the public about the
availability of the clearinghouse and the protections and remedies
available under sections 255, 716, and 718.
SEC. 718. ø47 U.S.C. 619¿ INTERNET BROWSERS BUILT INTO TELE-
PHONES USED WITH PUBLIC MOBILE SERVICES.
(a) ACCESSIBILITY.—If a manufacturer of a telephone used with
public mobile services (as such term is defined in section
710(b)(4)(B)) includes an Internet browser in such telephone, or if
a provider of mobile service arranges for the inclusion of a browser
in telephones to sell to customers, the manufacturer or provider
shall ensure that the functions of the included browser (including
the ability to launch the browser) are accessible to and usable by
individuals who are blind or have a visual impairment, unless
doing so is not achievable, except that this subsection shall not im-
pose any requirement on such manufacturer or provider—
(1) to make accessible or usable any Internet browser other
than a browser that such manufacturer or provider includes or
arranges to include in the telephone; or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00400 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
401 Sec. 720COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(2) to make Internet content, applications, or services ac-
cessible or usable (other than enabling individuals with disabil-
ities to use an included browser to access such content, appli-
cations, or services).
(b) INDUSTRY FLEXIBILITY.—A manufacturer or provider may
satisfy the requirements of subsection (a) with respect to such tele-
phone or services by—
(1) ensuring that the telephone or services that such man-
ufacture or provider offers is accessible to and usable by indi-
viduals with disabilities without the use of third party applica-
tions, peripheral devices, software, hardware, or customer
premises equipment; or
(2) using third party applications, peripheral devices, soft-
ware, hardware, or customer premises equipment that is avail-
able to the consumer at nominal cost and that individuals with
disabilities can access.
SEC. 719. ø47 U.S.C. 620¿ RELAY SERVICES FOR DEAF-BLIND INDIVID-
UALS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Within 6 months after the date of enactment
of the Twenty-First Century Communications and Video Accessi-
bility Act of 2010, the Commission shall establish rules that define
as eligible for relay service support those programs that are ap-
proved by the Commission for the distribution of specialized cus-
tomer premises equipment designed to make telecommunications
service, Internet access service, and advanced communications, in-
cluding interexchange services and advanced telecommunications
and information services, accessible by low-income individuals who
are deaf-blind.
(b) INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DEAF-BLIND DEFINED.—For purposes
of this subsection, the term ‘‘individuals who are deaf-blind’’ has
the same meaning given such term in the Helen Keller National
Center Act, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of
1992 (29 U.S.C. 1905(2)).
(c) ANNUAL AMOUNT.—The total amount of support the Com-
mission may provide from its interstate relay fund for any fiscal
year may not exceed $10,000,000.
SEC. 720. ø47 U.S.C. 622¿ OPTIONAL ELECTRONIC LABELING OF COM-
MUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘electronic labeling’’ means displaying re-
quired labeling and regulatory information electronically; and
(2) the term ‘‘radiofrequency device with display’’ means
any equipment or device that—
(A) is required under regulations of the Commission to
be authorized by the Commission before the equipment or
device may be marketed or sold within the United States;
and (B) has the capability to digitally display required la-
beling and regulatory information.
(b) REQUIREMENT TO PROMULGATE REGULATIONS FOR ELEC-
TRONIC LABELING.—Not later than 9 months after the date of en-
actment of the Enhance Labeling, Accessing, and Branding of Elec-
tronic Licenses Act of 2014, the Commission shall promulgate regu-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00401 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
402Sec. 721 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
lations or take other appropriate action, as necessary, to allow
manufacturers of radiofrequency devices with display the option to
use electronic labeling for the equipment in place of affixing phys-
ical labels to the equipment.
SEC. 721. ø47 U.S.C. 623¿ CONFIGURATION OF MULTI-LINE TELEPHONE
SYSTEMS FOR DIRECT DIALING OF 9–1–1.
(a) SYSTEM MANUFACTURE, IMPORTATION, SALE, AND LEASE.—
A person engaged in the business of manufacturing, importing, sell-
ing, or leasing multi-line telephone systems may not manufacture
or import for use in the United States, or sell or lease or offer to
sell or lease in the United States, a multi-line telephone system,
unless such system is pre-configured such that, when properly in-
stalled in accordance with subsection (b), a user may directly ini-
tiate a call to 9–1–1 from any station equipped with dialing facili-
ties, without dialing any additional digit, code, prefix, or post-fix,
including any trunk-access code such as the digit ‘9’, regardless of
whether the user is required to dial such a digit, code, prefix, or
post-fix for other calls.
(b) SYSTEM INSTALLATION, MANAGEMENT, AND OPERATION.—A
person engaged in the business of installing, managing, or oper-
ating multi-line telephone systems may not install, manage, or op-
erate for use in the United States such a system, unless such sys-
tem is configured such that a user may directly initiate a call to
9–1–1 from any station equipped with dialing facilities, without di-
aling any additional digit, code, prefix, or post-fix, including any
trunk-access code such as the digit ‘9’, regardless of whether the
user is required to dial such a digit, code, prefix, or post-fix for
other calls.
(c) ON-SITE NOTIFICATION.—A person engaged in the business
of installing, managing, or operating multi-line telephone systems
shall, in installing, managing, or operating such a system for use
in the United States, configure the system to provide a notification
to a central location at the facility where the system is installed
or to another person or organization regardless of location, if the
system is able to be configured to provide the notification without
an improvement to the hardware or software of the system.
(d) EFFECT ON STATE LAW.—Nothing in this section is intended
to alter the authority of State commissions or other State or local
agencies with jurisdiction over emergency communications, if the
exercise of such authority is not inconsistent with this Act.
(e) ENFORCEMENT.—This section shall be enforced under title
V, except that section 501 applies only to the extent that such sec-
tion provides for the punishment of a fine.
(f) MULTI-LINE TELEPHONE SYSTEM DEFINED.—In this section,
the term ‘‘multi-line telephone system’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 6502 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Cre-
ation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1471).
SEC. 722. ø47 U.S.C. 624¿ DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR UNITED
STATES-BASED FOREIGN MEDIA OUTLETS.
(a) REPORTS BY OUTLETS TO COMMISSION.—Not later than 60
days after the date of the enactment of this section, and not less
frequently than every 6 months thereafter, a United States-based
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00402 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
403 Sec. 801COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
foreign media outlet shall submit to the Commission a report that
contains the following information:
(1) The name of such outlet.
(2) A description of the relationship of such outlet to the
foreign principal of such outlet, including a description of the
legal structure of such relationship and any funding that such
outlet receives from such principal.
(b) REPORTS BY COMMISSION TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 90
days after the date of the enactment of this section, and not less
frequently than every 6 months thereafter, the Commission shall
transmit to Congress a report that summarizes the contents of the
reports submitted by United States-based foreign media outlets
under subsection (a) during the preceding 6-month period.
(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Commission shall make publicly
available on the internet website of the Commission each report
submitted by a United States-based foreign media outlet under
subsection (a) not later than the earlier of—
(1) the date that is 30 days after the outlet submits the re-
port to the Commission; or
(2) the date on which the Commission transmits to Con-
gress under subsection (b) the report covering the 6-month pe-
riod during which the report of the outlet was submitted to the
Commission under subsection (a).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) FOREIGN PRINCIPAL.—The term ‘‘foreign principal’’ has
the meaning given such term in section 1(b)(1) of the Foreign
Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611(b)(1)).
(2) UNITED STATES-BASED FOREIGN MEDIA OUTLET.—The
term ‘‘United States-based foreign media outlet’’ means an en-
tity that—
(A) produces or distributes video programming (as de-
fined in section 602) that is transmitted, or intended for
transmission, by a multichannel video programming dis-
tributor (as defined in such section) to consumers in the
United States; and
(B) would be an agent of a foreign principal (as de-
fined in paragraph (1)) for purposes of the Foreign Agents
Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.) but for sec-
tion 1(d) of such Act (22 U.S.C. 611(d)).
TITLE VIII—BROADBAND DATA
SEC. 801. ø47 U.S.C. 641¿ DEFINITIONS.
In this title:
(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—The term
‘‘broadband internet access service’’ has the meaning given the
term in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations,
or any successor regulation.
(2) BROADBAND MAP.—The term ‘‘Broadband Map’’ means
the map created by the Commission under section 802(c)(1)(A).
(3) CELL EDGE PROBABILITY.—The term ‘‘cell edge prob-
ability’’ means the likelihood that the minimum threshold
download and upload speeds with respect to broadband inter-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00403 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
404Sec. 801 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
net access service will be met or exceeded at a distance from
a base station that is intended to indicate the ultimate edge of
the coverage area of a cell.
(4) CELL LOADING.—The term ‘‘cell loading’’ means the per-
centage of the available air interface resources of a base sta-
tion that are used by consumers with respect to broadband
internet access service.
(5) CLUTTER.—The term ‘‘clutter’’ means a natural or man-
made surface feature that affects the propagation of a signal
from a base station.
(6) FABRIC.—The term ‘‘Fabric’’ means the Broadband
Serviceable Location Fabric established under section
802(b)(1)(B).
(7) FORM 477.—The term ‘‘Form 477’’ means Form 477 of
the Commission relating to local telephone competition and
broadband reporting.
(8) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Indian Tribe’’ has the mean-
ing given the term ‘‘Indian tribe’’ in section 4 of the Indian
Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.
5304).
(9) MOBILITY FUND PHASE II.—The term ‘‘Mobility Fund
Phase II’’ means the second phase of the proceeding to provide
universal service support from the Mobility Fund (WC Docket
No. 10–90; WT Docket No. 10–208).
(10) PROPAGATION MODEL.—The term ‘‘propagation model’’
means a mathematical formulation for the characterization of
radio wave propagation as a function of frequency, distance,
and other conditions.
(11) PROVIDER.—The term ‘‘provider’’ means a provider of
fixed or mobile broadband internet access service.
(12) QUALITY OF SERVICE.—The term ‘‘quality of service’’
means, with respect to broadband internet access service, the
download and upload speeds (and, for relevant services, la-
tency) with respect to that service, as determined by, and to
the extent otherwise collected by, the Commission.
(13) SHAPEFILE.—The term ‘‘shapefile’’ means a digital
storage format containing geospatial or location-based data and
attribute information—
(A) regarding the availability of broadband internet
access service; and
(B) that can be viewed, edited, and mapped in geo-
graphic information system software.
(14) STANDARD BROADBAND INSTALLATION.—The term
‘‘standard broadband installation’’—
(A) means the initiation by a provider of fixed
broadband internet access service in an area in which the
provider has not previously offered that service, with no
charges or delays attributable to the extension of the net-
work of the provider; and
(B) includes the initiation of fixed broadband internet
access service through routine installation that can be
completed not later than 10 business days after the date
on which the service request is submitted.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00404 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
405 Sec. 802COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 802. ø47 U.S.C. 642¿ BROADBAND MAPS.
(a) RULES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this title, the Commission shall issue final rules
that shall—
(A) require the biannual collection and dissemination
of granular data, as determined by the Commission—
(i) relating to the availability and quality of serv-
ice with respect to terrestrial fixed, fixed wireless, sat-
ellite, and mobile broadband internet access service;
and (ii) that the Commission shall use to compile the
maps created under subsection (c)(1) (referred to in
this section as ‘‘coverage maps’’), which the Commis-
sion shall make publicly available; and
(B) establish—
(i) processes through which the Commission can
verify the accuracy of data submitted under subsection
(b)(2);
(ii) processes and procedures through which the
Commission, and, as necessary, other entities or indi-
viduals submitting non-public or competitively sen-
sitive information under this title, can protect the se-
curity, privacy, and confidentiality of that non-public
or competitively sensitive information, including—
(I) information contained in the Fabric;
(II) the dataset created under subsection
(b)(1)(A) supporting the Fabric; and
(III) the data submitted under subsection
(b)(2);
(iii) the challenge process described in subsection
(b)(5); and
(iv) the process described in section 804(b).
(2) OTHER DATA.—In issuing the rules under paragraph
(1), the Commission shall develop a process through which the
Commission can collect verified data for use in the coverage
maps from—
(A) State, local, and Tribal governmental entities that
are primarily responsible for mapping or tracking
broadband internet access service coverage for a State,
unit of local government, or Indian Tribe, as applicable;
(B) third parties, if the Commission determines that it
is in the public interest to use such data in—
(i) the development of the coverage maps; or
(ii) the verification of data submitted under sub-
section (b); and
(C) other Federal agencies.
(3) UPDATES.—The Commission shall revise the rules
issued under paragraph (1) to—
(A) reflect changes in technology;
(B) ensure the accuracy of propagation models, as fur-
ther provided in subsection (b)(3); and
(C) improve the usefulness of the coverage maps.
(b) CONTENT OF RULES.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00405 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
406Sec. 802 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF A SERVICEABLE LOCATION FABRIC
REGARDING FIXED BROADBAND.—
(A) DATASET.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall create a
common dataset of all locations in the United States
where fixed broadband internet access service can be
installed, as determined by the Commission.
(ii) CONTRACTING.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subclauses (II)
and (III), the Commission may contract with an
entity with expertise with respect to geographic
information systems (referred to in this subsection
as ‘‘GIS’’) to create and maintain the dataset
under clause (i).
(II) APPLICATION OF THE FEDERAL ACQUISITION
REGULATION.—A contract into which the Commis-
sion enters under subclause (I) shall in all re-
spects comply with applicable provisions of the
Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(III) LIMITATIONS.—With respect to a contract
into which the Commission enters under sub-
clause (I)—
(aa) the entity with which the Commis-
sion enters into the contract shall be selected
through a competitive bid process that is
transparent and open; and
(bb) the contract shall be for a term of not
longer than 5 years, after which the Commis-
sion may enter into a new contract—
(AA) with an entity, and for the pur-
poses, described in clause (i); and
(BB) that complies with the require-
ments under subclause (II) and this sub-
clause; and
(cc) the contract shall—
(AA) prohibit the entity described in
item (aa) from selling, leasing, or other-
wise disclosing for monetary consider-
ation any personally identifiable informa-
tion to any other entity other than for
purposes authorized under this title; and
(BB) require the entity described in
item (aa) to include in any contract with
any other entity a provision that prohibits
that other entity from engaging in an ac-
tion that is prohibited under subitem
(AA).
(B) FABRIC.—The rules issued by the Commission
under subsection (a)(1) shall establish the Broadband
Serviceable Location Fabric, which shall—
(i) contain geocoded information for each location
identified under subparagraph (A)(i);
(ii) serve as the foundation upon which all data
relating to the availability of fixed broadband internet
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00406 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
407 Sec. 802COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
access service collected under paragraph (2)(A) shall
be reported and overlaid;
(iii) be compatible with commonly used GIS soft-
ware; and
(iv) at a minimum, be updated every 6 months by
the Commission.
(C) IMPLEMENTATION PRIORITY.—The Commission shall
prioritize implementing the Fabric for rural and insular
areas of the United States.
(D) AVAILABILITY OF CENSUS DATA.—The Secretary of
Commerce shall submit to the Commission, for inclusion in
the Fabric, a count of the aggregate number of housing
units in each census block, as collected by the Bureau of
the Census.
(2) COLLECTION OF INFORMATION.—The rules issued by the
Commission under subsection (a)(1) shall include uniform
standards for the reporting of broadband internet access serv-
ice data that the Commission shall collect—
(A) from each provider of terrestrial fixed, fixed wire-
less, or satellite broadband internet access service, which
shall include data that—
(i) documents the areas where the provider—
(I) has actually built out the broadband net-
work infrastructure of the provider such that the
provider is able to provide that service; and
(II) could provide that service, as determined
by identifying where the provider is capable of
performing a standard broadband installation, if
applicable;
(ii) includes information regarding download and
upload speeds, at various thresholds established by
the Commission, and, if applicable, latency with re-
spect to broadband internet access service that the
provider makes available;
(iii) can be georeferenced to the GIS data in the
Fabric;
(iv) the provider shall report as—
(I) with respect to providers of fixed wireless
broadband internet access service—
(aa) propagation maps and propagation
model details that—
(AA) satisfy standards that are simi-
lar to those applicable to providers of mo-
bile broadband internet access service
under subparagraph (B) with respect to
propagation maps and propagation model
details, taking into account material dif-
ferences between fixed wireless and mo-
bile broadband internet access service;
and
(BB) reflect the speeds and latency of
the service provided by the provider; or
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00407 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
408Sec. 802 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(bb) a list of addresses or locations that
constitute the service area of the provider, ex-
cept that the Commission—
(AA) may only permit, and not re-
quire, a provider to report the data using
that means of reporting; and
(BB) in the rules issued under sub-
section (a)(1), shall provide a method for
using that means of reporting with re-
spect to Tribal areas; and
(II) with respect to providers of terrestrial
fixed and satellite broadband internet access serv-
ice— (aa) polygon shapefiles; or
(bb) a list of addresses or locations that
constitute the service area of the provider, ex-
cept that the Commission—
(AA) may only permit, and not re-
quire, a provider to report the data using
that means of reporting; and
(BB) in the rules issued under sub-
section (a)(1), shall provide a method for
using that means of reporting with re-
spect to Tribal areas; and
(v) the Commission determines is appropriate
with respect to certain technologies in order to ensure
that the Broadband Map is granular and accurate;
and
(B) from each provider of mobile broadband internet
access service, which shall include propagation maps and
propagation model details that indicate the current (as of
the date on which the information is collected) fourth gen-
eration Long-Term Evolution (commonly referred to as ‘‘4G
LTE’’) mobile broadband internet access service coverage of
the provider, which shall—
(i) take into consideration the effect of clutter; and
(ii) satisfy—
(I) the requirements of having—
(aa) a download speed of not less than 5
megabits per second and an upload speed of
not less than 1 megabit per second with a cell
edge probability of not less than 90 percent;
and (bb) cell loading of not less than 50 per-
cent; and
(II) any other parameter that the Commission
determines to be necessary to create a map under
subsection (c)(1)(C) that is more precise than the
map produced as a result of the submissions
under the Mobility Fund Phase II information col-
lection.
(3) UPDATE OF REPORTING STANDARDS FOR MOBILE
BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—For the purposes of
paragraph (2)(B), if the Commission determines that the re-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00408 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
409 Sec. 802COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
porting standards under that paragraph are insufficient to col-
lect accurate propagation maps and propagation model details
with respect to future generations of mobile broadband inter-
net access service technologies, the Commission shall imme-
diately commence a rule making to adopt new reporting stand-
ards with respect to those technologies that—
(A) shall be the functional equivalent of the standards
required under paragraph (2)(B); and
(B) allow for the collection of propagation maps and
propagation model details that are as accurate and granu-
lar as, or more accurate and granular than, the maps and
model details collected by the Commission under para-
graph (2)(B).
(4) CERTIFICATION AND VERIFICATION.—With respect to a
provider that submits information to the Commission under
paragraph (2)—
(A) the provider shall include in each submission a
certification from a corporate officer of the provider that
the officer has examined the information contained in the
submission and that, to the best of the officer’s actual
knowledge, information, and belief, all statements of fact
contained in the submission are true and correct; and
(B) the Commission shall verify the accuracy and reli-
ability of the information in accordance with measures es-
tablished by the Commission.
(5) CHALLENGE PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—In the rules issued under subsection
(a), and subject to subparagraph (B), the Commission shall
establish a user-friendly challenge process through which
consumers, State, local, and Tribal governmental entities,
and other entities or individuals may submit coverage data
to the Commission to challenge the accuracy of—
(i) the coverage maps;
(ii) any information submitted by a provider re-
garding the availability of broadband internet access
service; or
(iii) the information included in the Fabric.
(B) CONSIDERATIONS; VERIFICATION; RESPONSE TO
CHALLENGES.—In establishing the challenge process re-
quired under subparagraph (A), the Commission shall—
(i) consider—
(I) the types of information that an entity or
individual submitting a challenge should provide
to the Commission in support of the challenge;
(II) the appropriate level of granularity for
the information described in subclause (I);
(III) the need to mitigate the time and ex-
pense incurred by, and the administrative burdens
placed on, entities or individuals in—
(aa) challenging the accuracy of a cov-
erage map; and
(bb) responding to challenges described in
item (aa);
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00409 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
410Sec. 802 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(IV) the costs to consumers and providers re-
sulting from a misallocation of funds because of a
reliance on outdated or otherwise inaccurate infor-
mation in the coverage maps;
(V) any lessons learned from the challenge
process established under Mobility Fund Phase II,
as determined from comments solicited by the
Commission; and
(VI) the need for user-friendly challenge sub-
mission formats that will promote participation in
the challenge process;
(ii) include a process for verifying the data sub-
mitted through the challenge process in order to en-
sure the reliability of that data;
(iii) allow providers to respond to challenges sub-
mitted through the challenge process; and
(iv) develop an online mechanism, which—
(I) shall be integrated into the coverage maps;
(II) allows for an entity described in subpara-
graph (A) to submit a challenge under the chal-
lenge process;
(III) makes challenge data available in both
geographic information system and non-geo-
graphic information system formats; and
(IV) clearly identifies the areas in which
broadband internet access service is available, and
the upload and download speeds at which that
service is available, as reported to the Commission
under this section.
(C) USE OF CHALLENGES.—The rules issued to estab-
lish the challenge process under subparagraph (A) shall in-
clude—
(i) a process for the speedy resolution of chal-
lenges, which shall require that the Commission re-
solve a challenge not later than 90 days after the date
on which a final response by a provider to a challenge
to the accuracy of a map or information described in
subparagraph (A) is complete; and
(ii) a process for the regular and expeditious up-
dating of the coverage maps and granular data dis-
seminated by the Commission as challenges are re-
solved.
(D) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not earlier than 1 year,
and not later than 18 months, after the date on which the
rules issued under subsection (a)(1) take effect, the Com-
mission shall, after an opportunity for notice and com-
ment, submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a re-
port that—
(i) evaluates the challenge process described in
subparagraph (A); and
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00410 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
411 Sec. 802COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(ii) considers whether the Commission should
commence an inquiry on the need for other tools to
help— (I) identify potential inaccuracies in the data
relating to broadband internet access service that
providers report; and
(II) improve the accuracy of the data de-
scribed in subclause (I).
(6) REFORM OF FORM 477 PROCESS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after the
date on which the rules issued under subsection (a) take
effect, the Commission shall—
(i) reform the Form 477 broadband deployment
service availability collection process of the Commis-
sion— (I) to achieve the purposes of this title; and
(II) in a manner that—
(aa) enables the comparison of data and
maps produced before the implementation of
this title with data and coverage maps pro-
duced after the implementation of this title;
and (bb) maintains the public availability of
data relating to the deployment of broadband
internet access service; and
(ii) harmonize reporting requirements and proce-
dures regarding the deployment of broadband internet
access service that are in effect on the day before the
date on which the rules issued under subsection (a)(1)
take effect with those requirements and procedures in
those rules.
(B) CONTINUED COLLECTION AND REPORTING.—On and
after the date on which the Commission carries out sub-
paragraph (A), the Commission shall continue to collect
and publicly report subscription data that the Commission
collected through the Form 477 broadband deployment
service availability process, as in effect on July 1, 2019.
(7) SHARING DATA WITH NTIA.—The Commission shall es-
tablish a process to make the data collected under paragraph
(2) available to the National Telecommunications and Informa-
tion Administration.
(c) MAPS.—The Commission shall—
(1) after consultation with the Federal Geographic Data
Committee established under section 753(a) of the Geospatial
Data Act of 2018, create—
(A) the Broadband Map, which shall depict—
(i) the extent of the availability of broadband
internet access service in the United States, without
regard to whether that service is fixed broadband
internet access service or mobile broadband internet
access service, which shall be based on data collected
by the Commission from all providers; and
(ii) the areas of the United States that remain
unserved by providers;
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00411 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
412Sec. 803 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(B) a map that depicts the availability of fixed
broadband internet access service, which shall be based on
data collected by the Commission from providers under
subsection (b)(2)(A); and
(C) a map that depicts the availability of mobile
broadband internet access service, which shall be based on
data collected by the Commission from providers under
subsection (b)(2)(B);
(2) after creating the maps under paragraph (1), use such
maps—
(A) to determine the areas in which terrestrial fixed,
fixed wireless, mobile, and satellite broadband internet ac-
cess service is and is not available; and
(B) when making any new award of funding with re-
spect to the deployment of broadband internet access serv-
ice intended for use by residential and mobile customers;
(3) update the maps created under paragraph (1) not less
frequently than biannually using the most recent data col-
lected from providers under subsection (b)(2);
(4) consult with—
(A) the Secretary of Agriculture to enable the Sec-
retary of Agriculture to consult the maps created under
paragraph (1) when considering the awarding of funds for
the deployment of broadband internet access service under
any program administered by the Administrator of the
Rural Utilities Service; and
(B) the National Telecommunications and Information
Administration to enable the Administration to consult the
maps created under paragraph (1) when considering the
awarding of funds for the deployment of broadband inter-
net access service under any future program administered
by the Administration;
(5) make available to any Federal agency, upon request,
the maps created under paragraph (1); and
(6) make public, including on a publicly available website,
at an appropriate level of granularity—
(A) the maps created under paragraph (1); and
(B) the data collected by the Commission with respect
to the availability of broadband internet access service and
the quality of service with respect to broadband internet
access service.
(d) DELAYED EFFECTIVE DATE FOR QUALITY OF SERVICE
RULES.—Any requirement of a rule issued under subsection (a)(1)
that relates to quality of service shall take effect not earlier than
the date that is 180 days after the date on which the Commission
issues that rule.
SEC. 803. ø47 U.S.C. 643¿ ENFORCEMENT.
It shall be unlawful for an entity or individual to willfully and
knowingly, or recklessly, submit information or data under this
title that is materially inaccurate or incomplete with respect to the
availability of broadband internet access service or the quality of
service with respect to broadband internet access service.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00412 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
413 Sec. 804COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
SEC. 804. ø47 U.S.C. 644¿ IMPROVING DATA ACCURACY.
(a) AUDITS.—The Commission shall conduct regular audits of
information submitted to the Commission by providers under sec-
tion 802(b)(2) to ensure that the providers are complying with this
title.(b) CROWDSOURCING.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—The Commission shall develop a process
through which entities or individuals in the United States may
submit specific information about the deployment and avail-
ability of broadband internet access service in the United
States on an ongoing basis so that the information may be
used to verify and supplement information provided by pro-
viders of broadband internet access service for inclusion in the
maps created under section 802(c)(1).
(2) COLLABORATION.—As part of the efforts of the Commis-
sion to facilitate the ability of entities and individuals to sub-
mit information under paragraph (1), the Commission shall—
(A) prioritize the consideration of data provided by
data collection applications used by consumers that the
Commission has determined—
(i) are highly reliable; and
(ii) have proven methodologies for determining
network coverage and network performance; and
(B) coordinate with the Postmaster General, the heads
of other Federal agencies that operate delivery fleet vehi-
cles, and the Director of the Bureau of the Census for as-
sistance with data collection whenever coordination could
feasibly yield more specific geographic data.
(c) T ECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO INDIAN TRIBES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2), the Commis-
sion shall hold workshops for Tribal Governments in each of
the 12 Bureau of Indian Affairs regions to provide technical as-
sistance with the collection and submission of data under sec-
tion 802(a)(2).
(2) ANNUAL REVIEW.—Each year, the Commission, in con-
sultation with Indian Tribes, shall review the need for contin-
ued workshops required under paragraph (1).
(d) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SERVICE PROVIDERS.—
The Commission shall establish a process through which a provider
that has fewer than 100,000 active broadband internet access serv-
ice connections may request and receive assistance from the Com-
mission with respect to geographic information system data proc-
essing to ensure that the provider is able to comply with the re-
quirements under section 802(b) in a timely and accurate manner.
(e) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO STATE, LOCAL, AND TRIBAL G OV-
ERNMENTS AND CONSUMERS.—The Commission shall provide tech-
nical assistance to consumers and State, local, and Tribal govern-
mental entities with respect to the challenge process established
under section 802(b)(5), which shall include—
(1) detailed tutorials and webinars; and
(2) the provision of staff of the Commission to provide as-
sistance, as needed, throughout the entirety of the challenge
process.
(f) GAO ASSESSMENT OF FABRIC SOURCE DATA.—
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00413 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
414Sec. 805 COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Comptroller General of the United
States shall conduct an assessment of key data sources that
are used for purposes of the Fabric to identify and geocode lo-
cations where fixed broadband internet access service can be
installed in order for the Comptroller General to develop rec-
ommendations for how the quality and completeness of those
data sources can be improved as data sources for the Fabric.
(2) SOURCES INCLUDED.—For the purposes of the assess-
ment conducted under paragraph (1), the key data sources de-
scribed in that paragraph shall include—
(A) any relevant sources of Federal data, including the
National Address Database administered by the Depart-
ment of Transportation;
(B) State- and county-level digitized parcel data; and
(C) property tax attribute recording.
(3) REPORT.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this title, the Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report that
contains the recommendations developed under paragraph (1).
SEC. 805. ø47 U.S.C. 645¿ COST.
(a) USF.—The Commission may not use funds from the uni-
versal service programs of the Commission established under sec-
tion 254, and the regulations issued under that section, to pay for
any costs associated with this title.
(b) OTHER FUNDS.—The Commission may recover costs associ-
ated with this title under section 9 to the extent provided for in an
appropriation Act, as required under subsection (a) of that section.
SEC. 806. ø47 U.S.C. 646¿ OTHER PROVISIONS.
(a) OMB.—Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the ini-
tial rule making required under section 802(a)(1) shall be exempt
from review by the Office of Management and Budget.
(b) PRA.—Subchapter I of chapter 35 of title 44, United States
Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Paperwork Reduction Act’’) shall
not apply to any rule making or other action by the Commission
required under this title.
(c) EXECUTION OF RESPONSIBILITIES.—Except, with respect to
an entity that is not the Universal Service Administrative Com-
pany, as provided in section 802(a)(2)(B), section 802(b)(1)(A)(ii),
and subsections (c), (d), and (e) of section 804, the Commission—
(1) including the offices of the Commission, shall carry out
the responsibilities assigned to the Commission under this
title; and
(2) may not delegate any of the responsibilities assigned to
the Commission under this title to any third party, including
the Universal Service Administrative Company.
(d) R EPORTING.—Each fiscal year, the Commission shall submit
to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House
of Representatives a report that summarizes the implementation of
this title and associated enforcement activities conducted during
the previous fiscal year.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00414 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025
415 Sec. 806COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934
(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—If the Commission, before the
date of enactment of this title, has taken an action that, in whole
or in part, implements this title, the Commission shall not be re-
quired to revisit such action to the extent that such action is con-
sistent with this title.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 15:59 May 22, 2025 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00415 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\FCC\CAO1.BEL HOLC
May 22, 2025
G:\COMP\FCC\COMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1934.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 119-12, Enacted May 19, 2025