1
1 Section 50251(b)(1)(A)(i)(II) of Public Law 117-169 amended paragraph one of subsection (a)
by striking ‘‘control;’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘control or within the exclusive economic zone
of the United States and adjacent to any territory of the United States; and’’. The amendment
should have struck ‘‘control.’’
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
[The Act of August 7, 1953, Chapter 345, as Amended]
[As Amended Through P.L. 117–169, Enacted August 16, 2022]
øCurrency: This publication is a compilation of the text of Act of August 7, 1953,
Chapter 345. It was last amended by the public law listed in the As Amended
Through note above and below at the bottom of each page of the pdf version and
reflects current law through the date of the enactment of the public law listed at
https://www.govinfo.gov/app/collection/comps/¿
øNote: While this publication does not represent an official version of any Federal
statute, substantial efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of its contents.
The official version of Federal law is found in the United States Statutes at Large
and in the United States Code. The legal effect to be given to the Statutes at
Large and the United States Code is established by statute (1 U.S.C. 112, 204).¿
AN ACT To provide for the jurisdiction of the United States over the submerged
lands of the outer Continental Shelf, and to authorize the Secretary of the Interior
to lease such lands for certain purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That this Act may
be cited as the ‘‘Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act’’.
ø43 U.S.C. 1301 note¿
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.—In this Act:
(a) OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.—The term ‘‘outer Continental
Shelf’’means—
(1) all submerged lands lying seaward and outside of the
area of lands beneath navigable waters as defined in section 2
of the Submerged Lands Act (Public Law 31, Eighty-third Con-
gress, first session), and of which the subsoil and seabed apper-
tain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdiction and
control 1 .
(2) does not include any area conveyed by Congress to a
territorial government for administration;
(b) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Secretary of
the Interior, except that with respect to functions under this Act
transferred to, or vested in, the Secretary of Energy or the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission by or pursuant to the Department
of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.), the term ‘‘Sec-
retary’’ means the Secretary of Energy, or the Federal Energy Reg-
ulatory Commission, as the case may be.
(c) LEASE.—The term ‘‘lease’’ means any form of authorization
which is issued under section 8 or maintained under section 6 of
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
2Sec. 2 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
this Act and which authorizes exploration for, and development
and production of, minerals.
(d) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ includes, in addition to a nat-
ural person, an association, a State, a political subdivision of a
State, or a private, public, or municipal corporation.
(e) COASTAL ZONE.—The term ‘‘coastal zone’’ means the coastal
waters (including the lands therein and thereunder) and the adja-
cent shorelands (including the waters therein and thereunder),
strongly influenced by each other and in proximity to the shore-
lines of the several coastal States, and includes islands, transition
and intertidal areas, salt marshes, wetlands, and beaches, which
zone extends seaward to the outer limit of the United States terri-
torial sea and extends inland from the shorelines to the extent nec-
essary to control shorelands, the uses of which have a direct and
significant impact on the coastal waters, and the inward bound-
aries of which may be identified by the several coastal States, pur-
suant to the authority of section 305(b)(1) of the Coastal Zone Man-
agement Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1454(b)(1)).
(f) AFFECTED STATE.—The term ‘‘affected State’’ means, with
respect to any program, plan, lease sale, or other activity, proposed,
conducted, or approved pursuant to the provisions of this Act, any
State— (1) the laws of which are declared, pursuant to section
4(a)(2) of this Act, to be the law of the United States for the
portion of the outer Continental Shelf on which such activity
is, or is proposed to be, conducted;
(2) which is, or is proposed to be, directly connected by
transportation facilities to any artificial island or structure re-
ferred to in section 4(a)(1) of this Act;
(3) which is receiving, or in accordance with the proposed
activity will receive, oil for processing, refining, or trans-
shipment which was extracted from the outer Continental
Shelf and transported directly to such State by means of ves-
sels or by a combination of means including vessels;
(4) which is designated by the Secretary as a State in
which there is a substantial probability of significant impact on
or damage to the coastal, marine, or human environment, or
a State in which there will be significant changes in the social,
governmental, or economic infrastructure, resulting from the
exploration, development, and production of oil and gas any-
where on the Outer Continental Shelf; or
(5) in which the Secretary finds that because of such activ-
ity there is, or will be, a significant risk of serious damage, due
to factors such as prevailing winds and currents, to the marine
or coastal environment in the event of any oilspill, blowout, or
release of oil or gas from vessels, pipelines, or other trans-
shipment facilities.
(g) MARINE ENVIRONMENT.—The term ‘‘marine environment’’
means the physical, atmospheric, and biological components, condi-
tions, and factors which interactively determine the productivity,
state, condition, and quality of the marine ecosystem, including the
waters of the high seas, the contiguous zone, transitional and
intertidal areas, salt marshes, and wetlands within the coastal
zone and on the outer Continental Shelf.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
3 Sec. 2OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(h) COASTAL ENVIRONMENT.—The term ‘‘coastal environment’’
means the physical atmospheric, and biological components, condi-
tions, and factors which interactively determine the productivity,
state, condition, and quality of the terrestrial ecosystem from the
shoreline inward to the boundaries of the coastal zone.
(i) HUMAN ENVIRONMENT.—The term ‘‘human environment’’
means the physical, social, and economic components, conditions,
and factors which interactively determine the state, condition, and
quality of living conditions, employment, and health of those af-
fected, directly or indirectly, by activities occurring on the outer
Continental Shelf.
(j) GOVERNOR.—The term ‘‘Governor’’ means the Governor of a
State, or the person or entity designated by, or pursuant to, State
law to exercise the powers granted to such Governor pursuant to
this Act.
(k) EXPLORATION.—The term ‘‘exploration’’ means the process
of searching for minerals, including (1) geophysical surveys where
magnetic, gravity, seismic, or other systems are used to detect or
imply the presence of such minerals, and (2) any drilling, whether
on or off known geological structures, including the drilling of a
well in which a discovery of oil or natural gas in paying quantities
is made and the drilling of any additional delineation well after
such discovery which is needed to delineate any reservoir and to
enable the lessee to determine whether to proceed with develop-
ment and production.
(l) DEVELOPMENT.—The term ‘‘development’’ means those ac-
tivities which take place following discovery of minerals in paying
quantities, including geophysical activity, drilling, platform con-
struction, and operation of all onshore support facilities, and which
are for the purpose of ultimately producing the minerals discov-
ered.
(m) PRODUCTION.—The term ‘‘production’’ means those activi-
ties which take place after the successful completion of any means
for the removal of minerals, including such removal, field oper-
ations, transfer of minerals to shore, operation monitoring, mainte-
nance, and work-over drilling.
(n) ANTITRUST LAW.—The term ‘‘antitrust law’’ means—
(1) the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 1 et seq.);
(2) the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 12 et seq.);
(3) the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et
seq.);
(4) the Wilson Tariff Act (15 U.S.C. 8 et seq.); or
(5) the Act of June 19, 1936, chapter 592 (15 U.S.C. 13,
13a, 13b, and 21a).
(o) FAIR MARKET VALUE.—The term ‘‘fair market value’’ means
the value of any mineral (1) computed at a unit price equivalent
to the average unit price at which such mineral was sold pursuant
to a lease during the period for which any royalty or net profit
share is accrued or reserved to the United States pursuant to such
lease, or (2) if there were no such sales, or if the Secretary finds
that there were an insufficient number of such sales to equitably
determine such value, computed at the average unit price at which
such mineral was sold pursuant to other leases in the same region
of the outer Continental Shelf during such period, or (3) if there
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
4Sec. 3 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
2 The second subsection (r) was added to section 2 by section 50251(b)(1)(A)(iv) of Public Law
117-169.
were no sales of such mineral from such region during such period,
or if the Secretary finds that there are an insufficient number of
such sales to equitably determine such value, at an appropriate
price determined by the Secretary.
(p) MAJOR FEDERAL ACTION.—The term ‘‘major Federal action’’
means any action or proposal by the Secretary which is subject to
the provisions of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).
(q) MINERALS.—The term ‘‘minerals’’ includes oil, gas, sulphur,
geopressured-geothermal and associated resources, and all other
minerals which are authorized by an Act of Congress to be pro-
duced from ‘‘public lands’’ as defined in section 103 of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976; and
(r) CARBON DIOXIDE STREAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘carbon dioxide stream’’ means
carbon dioxide that—
(A) has been captured; and
(B) consists overwhelmingly of—
(i) carbon dioxide plus incidental associated sub-
stances derived from the source material or capture
process; and
(ii) any substances added to the stream for the
purpose of enabling or improving the injection process.
(2) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘carbon dioxide stream’’ does
not include additional waste or other matter added to the car-
bon dioxide stream for the purpose of disposal.
(s) CARBON SEQUESTRATION.—The term ‘‘carbon sequestration’’
means the act of storing carbon dioxide that has been removed
from the atmosphere or captured through physical, chemical, or bi-
ological processes that can prevent the carbon dioxide from reach-
ing the atmosphere.
(r) 2 The term ‘‘State’’ means—
(1) each of the several States;
(2) the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico;
(3) Guam;
(4) American Samoa;
(5) the United States Virgin Islands; and
(6) the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
ø43 U.S.C. 1331¿
SEC. 3. NATIONAL POLICY FOR THE OUTER CONTINENTAL
SHELF.—It is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States
that— (1) the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf
appertain to the United States and are subject to its jurisdic-
tion, control, and power of disposition as provided in this Act;
(2) this Act shall be construed in such a manner that the
character of the waters above the outer Continental Shelf as
high seas and the right to navigation and fishing therein shall
not be affected;
(3) the outer Continental Shelf is a vital national resource
reserve held by the Federal Government for the public, which
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
5 Sec. 4OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
3 So in law. The period probably should be a semicolon.
should be made available for expeditious and orderly develop-
ment, subject to environmental safeguards, in a manner which
is consistent with the maintainence of competition and other
national needs;
(4) since exploration, development, and production of the
minerals of the outer Continental Shelf will have significant
impacts on coastal and non-coastal areas of the coastal States,
and on other affected States, and, in recognition of the national
interest in the effective management of the marine, coastal,
and human environments—
(A) such States and their affected local governments
may require assistance in protecting their coastal zones
and other affected areas from any temporary or permanent
adverse effects of such impacts;
(B) the distribution of a portion of the receipts from
the leasing of mineral resources of the outer Continental
Shelf adjacent to State lands, as provided under section
8(g), will provide affected coastal States and localities with
funds which may be used for the mitigation of adverse eco-
nomic and environmental effects related to the develop-
ment of such resources; and
(C) such States, and through such States, affected
local governments, are entitled to an opportunity to par-
ticipate, to the extent consistent with the national interest,
in the policy and planning decisions made by the Federal
Government relating to exploration for, and development
and production of, minerals of the outer Continental
Shelf. 3
(5) the rights and responsibilities of all States and, where
appropriate, local governments, to preserve and protect their
marine, human, and coastal environments through such means
as regulation of land, air, and water uses, of safety, and of re-
lated development and activity should be considered and recog-
nized; and
(6) operations in the outer Continental Shelf should be
conducted in a safe manner by well-trained personnel using
technology, precautions, and techniques sufficient to prevent or
minimize the likelihood of blowouts, loss of well control, fires,
spillage, physical obstruction to other users of the waters or
subsoil and seabed, or other occurrences which may cause
damage to the environment or to property, or endanger life or
health.
ø43 U.S.C. 1332¿
SEC. 4. LAWS APPLICABLE TO OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.—(a)
(1) JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE OUTER
CONTINENTAL SHELF.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—The Constitution and laws and civil
and political jurisdiction of the United States are ex-
tended, to the same extent as if the outer Continental
Shelf were an area of exclusive Federal jurisdiction located
within a State, to—
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
6Sec. 4 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(i) the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental
Shelf;
(ii) all artificial islands on the outer Continental
Shelf;
(iii) installations and other devices permanently or
temporarily attached to the seabed, which may be
erected thereon for the purpose of exploring for, devel-
oping, or producing resources, including non-mineral
energy resources; or
(iv) any such installation or other device (other
than a ship or vessel) for the purpose of transporting
or transmitting such resources.
(B) LEASES ISSUED EXCLUSIVELY UNDER THIS ACT.—
Mineral or energy leases on the outer Continental Shelf
shall be maintained or issued only under the provisions of
this Act.
(2)(A) To the extent that they are applicable and not incon-
sistent with this Act or with other Federal laws and regulations of
the Secretary now in effect or hereafter adopted, the civil and
criminal laws of each adjacent State, now in effect or hereafter
adopted, amended, or repealed are hereby declared to be the law
of the United States for that portion of the subsoil and seabed of
the outer Continental Shelf, and artificial islands and fixed struc-
tures erected thereon, which would be within the area of the State
if its boundaries were extended seaward to the outer margin of the
outer Continental Shelf, and the President shall determine and
publish in the Federal Register such projected lines extending sea-
ward and defining each such area. All of such applicable laws shall
be administered and enforced by the appropriate officers and courts
of the United States. State taxation laws shall not apply to the
outer Continental Shelf.
(B) Within one year after the date of enactment of this sub-
paragraph, the President shall establish procedures for setting any
outstanding international boundary dispute respecting the outer
Continental Shelf.
(3) The provisions of this section for adoption of State law as
the law of the United States shall never be interpreted as a basis
for claiming any interest in or jurisdiction on behalf of any State
for any purpose over the seabed and subsoil of the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf, or the property and natural resources thereof or the
revenues therefrom.
(b) With respect to disability or death of an employee resulting
from any injury occurring as the result of operations conducted on
the outer Continental Shelf for the purpose of exploring for, devel-
oping, removing, or transporting by pipeline the natural resources,
or involving rights to the natural resources, of the subsoil and sea-
bed of the outer Continental Shelf, compensation shall be payable
under the provisions of the Longshoremen’s and Harbor Workers’
Compensation Act. For the purposes of the extension of the provi-
sions of the Longshoremen’s and Harbor Workers’ Compensation
Act under this section—
(1) the term ‘‘employee’’ does not include a master or mem-
ber of a crew of any vessel, or an officer or employee of the
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
7 Sec. 5OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
United States or any agency thereof or of any State or foreign
government, or of any political subdivision thereof;
(2) the term ‘‘employer’’ means an employer any of whose
employees are employed in such operations; and
(3) the term ‘‘United States’’ when used in a geographical
sense includes the outer Continental Shelf and artificial is-
lands and fixed structures thereon.
(c) For the purposes of the National Labor Relations Act, as
amended, any unfair labor practice, as defined in such Act, occur-
ring upon any artificial island, installation, or other device referred
to in subsection (a) of this section shall be deemed to have occurred
within the judicial district of the State, the laws of which apply to
such artificial island, installation, or other device pursuant to such
subsection, except that until the President determines the areas
within which such State laws are applicable, the judicial district
shall be that of the State nearest the place of location of such
artifical island, installation, or other device.
(d)(1) The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast
Guard is operating shall have authority to promulgate and enforce
such reasonable regulations with respect to lights and other warn-
ing devices, safety equipment, and other matters relating to the
promotion of safety of life and property on the artificial islands, in-
stallations, and other devices referred to in subsection (a) or on the
waters adjacent thereto, as he may deem necessary.
(2) The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard
is operating may mark for the protection of navigation any artifi-
cial island, installation, or other device referred to in subsection (a)
whenever the owner has failed suitably to mark such island, instal-
lation, or other device in accordance with regulation issued under
this Act, and the owner shall pay the cost of such marking.
(e) The authority of the Secretary of the Army to prevent ob-
struction to navigation in the navigable waters of the United States
is hereby extended to the artificial islands, installations, and other
devices referred to in subsection (a).
(f) The specific application by this section of certain provisions
of law to the subsoil and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf and
the artificial islands, installations, and other devices referred to in
subsection (a) or to acts or offenses occurring or committed thereon
shall not give rise to any inference that the application to such is-
lands and structures, acts, or offenses of any other provision of law
is not intended.
ø43 U.S.C. 1333¿
SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION OF LEASING OF THE OUTER CONTI-
NENTAL SHELF.—(a) The Secretary shall administer the provisions
of this Act relating to the leasing of the outer Continental Shelf,
and shall prescribe such rules and regulations as may be necessary
to carry out such provisions. The Secretary may at any time pre-
scribe and amend such rules and regulations as he determines to
be necessary and proper in order to provide for the prevention of
waste and conservation of the natural resources of the outer Conti-
nental Shelf, and the protection of correlative rights therein, and,
not withstanding any other provisions herein, such rules and regu-
lations shall, as of their effective date, apply to all operations con-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
8Sec. 5 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
4 Probably should end with ‘‘and’’.
ducted under a lease issued or maintained under the provisions of
this Act. In the enforcement of safety, environmental, and con-
servation laws and regulations, the Secretary shall cooperate with
the relevant departments and agencies of the Federal Government
and of the affected States. In the formulation and promulgation of
regulations, the Secretary shall request and give due consideration
to the views of the Attorney General with respect to matters which
may affect competition. In considering any regulations and in pre-
paring any such views the Attorney General shall consult with the
Federal Trade Commission. The regulations prescribed by the Sec-
retary under this subsection shall include, but not be limited to,
provisions—
(1) for the suspension or temporary prohibition of any op-
eration or activity, including production, pursuant to any lease
or permit (A) at the request of a lessee, in the national inter-
est, to facilitate proper development of a lease or to allow for
the construction or negotiation for use of transportation facili-
ties, or (B) if there is a threat of serious, irreparable, or imme-
diate harm or damage to life (including fish and other aquatic
life), to property, to any mineral deposits (in areas leased or
not leased), or to the marine, coastal, or human environment,
and for the extension of any permit or lease affected by suspen-
sion or prohibition under clause (A) or (B) by a period equiva-
lent to the period of such suspension or prohibition, except that
no permit or lease shall be so extended when such suspension
or prohibition is the result of gross negligence or willful viola-
tion of such lease or permit, or of regulations issued with re-
spect to such lease or permit;
(2) with respect to cancellation of any lease or permit—
(A) that such cancellation may occur at any time, if
the Secretary determines, after a hearing, that—
(i) continued activity pursuant to such lease or
permit would probably cause serious harm or damage
to life (including fish and other aquatic life), to prop-
erty, to any mineral (in areas leased or not leased), to
the national security or defense, or to the marine,
coastal, or human environment;
(ii) the threat of harm or damage will not dis-
appear or decrease to an acceptable extent within a
reasonable period of time; and
(iii) the advantages of cancellation outweigh the
advantages of continuing such lease or permit in force;
(B) that such cancellation shall not occur unless and
until operations under such lease or permit shall have
been under suspension, or temporary prohibition, by the
Secretary, with due extension of any lease or permit term
continuously for a period of five years, or for a lesser pe-
riod upon request of the lessee; 4
(C) that such cancellation shall entitle the lessee to re-
ceive such compensation as he shows to the Secretary as
being equal to the lesser of (i) the fair value of the can-
celed rights as of the date of cancellation, taking account
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
9 Sec. 5OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
of both anticipated revenues from the lease and antici-
pated costs, including costs of compliance with all applica-
ble regulations and operating orders, liability for cleanup
costs or damages, or both, in the case of an oilspill, and all
other costs reasonably anticipated on the lease, or (ii) the
excess, if any, over the lessee’s revenues, from the lease
(plus interest thereon from the date of receipt to date of
reimbursement) of all consideration paid for the lease and
all direct expenditures made by the lessee after the date
of issuance of such lease and in connection with explo-
ration or development, or both, pursuant to the lease (plus
interest on such consideration and such expenditures from
date of payment to date of reimbursement), except that (I)
with respect to leases issued before the date of enactment
of this subparagraph, such compensation shall be equal to
the amount specified in clause (i) of this subparagraph;
and (II) in the case of joint leases which are canceled due
to the failure of one or more partners to exercise due dili-
gence, the innocent parties shall have the right to seek
damages for such loss from the responsible party or parties
and the right to acquire the interests of the negligent
party or parties and be issued the lease in question;
(3) for the assignment or relinquishment of a lease;
(4) for unitization, pooling, and drilling agreements;
(5) for the subsurface storage of oil and gas from any
source other than by the Federal Government;
(6) for drilling or easements necessary for exploration, de-
velopment, and production;
(7) for the prompt and efficient exploration and develop-
ment of a lease area; and
(8) for compliance with the national ambient air quality
standards pursuant to the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et
seq.), to the extent that activities authorized under this Act
significantly affect the air quality of any State.
(b) The issuance and continuance in effect of any lease, or of
any assignment or other transfer of any lease, under the provisions
of this Act shall be conditioned upon compliance with regulations
issued under this Act.
(c) Whenever the owner of a nonproducing lease fails to comply
with any of the provisions of this Act, or of the lease, or of the reg-
ulations issued under this Act, such lease may be canceled by the
Secretary, subject to the right of judicial review as provided in this
Act, if such default continues for the period of thirty days after
mailing of notice by registered letter to the lease owner at his
record post office address.
(d) Whenever the owner of any producing lease fails to comply
with any of the provisions of this Act, of the lease, or of the regula-
tions issued under this Act, such lease may be forfeited and can-
celed by a appropriate proceeding in any United States district
court having jurisdiction under the provisions of this Act.
(e) Rights-of-way through the submerged lands of the outer
Continental Shelf, whether or not such lands are included in a
lease maintained or issued pursuant to this Act, may be granted
by the Secretary for pipeline purposes for the transportation of oil,
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
10Sec. 5 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
natural gas, sulphur, or other minerals, or under such regulations
and upon such conditions as may be prescribed by the Secretary,
or where appropriate the Secretary of Transportation, including (as
provided in section 21(b) of this Act) assuring maximum environ-
mental protection by utilization of the best available and safest
technologies, including the safest practices for pipeline burial and
upon the express condition that oil or gas pipelines shall transport
or purchase without discrimination, oil or natural gas produced
from submerged lands or outer Continental Shelf lands in the vi-
cinity of the pipelines in such proportionate amounts as the Fed-
eral Energy Regulatory Commission, in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Energy, may, after a full hearing with due notice thereof
to the interested parties, determine to be reasonable, taking into
account, among other things, conservation and the prevention of
waste. Failure to comply with the provisions of this section or the
regulations and conditions prescribed under this section shall be
ground for forfeiture of the grant in an appropriate judicial pro-
ceeding instituted by the United States in any United States dis-
trict court having jurisdiction under the provisions of this Act.
(f)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), every permit, li-
cense, easement, right-of-way, or other grant of authority for the
transportation by pipeline on or across the outer Continental Shelf
of oil or gas shall require that the pipeline be operated in accord-
ance with the following competitive principles:
(A) The pipeline must provide open and nondiscriminatory
access to both owner and nonowner shippers.
(B) Upon the specific request of one or more owner or non-
owner shippers able to provide a guaranteed level of through-
put, and on the condition that the shipper or shippers request-
ing such expansion shall be responsible for bearing their pro-
portionate share of the costs and risks related thereto, the Fed-
eral Energy Regulatory Commission may, upon finding, after a
full hearing with due notice thereof to the interested parties,
that such expansion is within technological limits and eco-
nomic feasibility, order a subsequent expansion of throughput
capacity of any pipeline for which the permit, license, ease-
ment, right-of-way, or other grant of authority is approved or
issued after the date of enactment of this subparagraph. This
subparagraph shall not apply to any such grant of authority
approved or issued for the Gulf of Mexico or the Santa Barbara
Channel.
(2) The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission may, by order
or regulation, exempt from any or all of the requirements of para-
graph (1) of this subsection any pipeline or class of pipelines which
feeds into a facility where oil and gas are first collected or a facility
where oil and gas are first separated, dehydrated, or otherwise
processed.
(3) The Secretary of Energy and the Federal Energy Regu-
latory Commission shall consult with and give due consideration to
the views of the Attorney General on specific conditions to be in-
cluded in any permit, license, easement, right-of-way, or grant of
authority in order to ensure that pipelines are operated in accord-
ance with the competitive principles set forth in paragraph (1) of
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
11 Sec. 5OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
this subsection. In preparing any such views, the Attorney General
shall consult with the Federal Trade Commission.
(4) Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to limit,
abridge, or modify any authority of the United States under any
other provision of law with respect to pipelines on or across the
outer Continental Shelf.
(g)(1) The lessee shall produce any oil or gas, or both, obtained
pursuant to an approved development and production plan, at rates
consistent with any rule or order issued by the President in accord-
ance with any provision of law.
(2) If no rule or order referred to in paragraph (1) has been
issued, the lessee shall produce such oil or gas, or both, at rates
consistent with any regulation promulgated by the Secretary of En-
ergy which is to assure the maximum rate of production which may
be sustained without loss of ultimate recovery of oil or gas, or both,
under sound engineering and economic principles, and which is
safe for the duration of the activity covered by the approved plan.
The Secretary may permit the lessee to vary such rates if he finds
that such variance is necessary.
(h) The head of any Federal department or agency who takes
any action which has a direct and significant effect on the outer
Continental Shelf or its development shall promptly notify the Sec-
retary of such action and the Secretary shall thereafter notify the
Governor of any affected State and the Secretary may thereafter
recommend such changes in such action as are considered appro-
priate.
(i) After the date of enactment of this section, no holder of any
oil and gas lease issued or maintained pursuant to this Act shall
be permitted to flare natural gas from any well unless the Sec-
retary finds that there is no practicable way to complete production
of such gas, or that such flaring is necessary to alleviate a tem-
porary emergency situation or to conduct testing or work-over oper-
ations.
(j) COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT OF COMMON HYDROCARBON-
BEARING AREAS.—
(1) FINDINGS.—
(A) The Congress of the United States finds that the
unrestrained competitive production of hydrocarbons from
a common hydrocarbon-bearing geological area underlying
the Federal and State boundary may result in a number
of harmful national effects, including—
(i) the drilling of unnecessary wells, the installa-
tion of unnecessary facilities and other imprudent op-
erating practices that result in economic waste, envi-
ronmental damage, and damage to life and property;
(ii) the physical waste of hydrocarbons and an un-
necessary reduction in the amounts of hydrocarbons
that can be produced from certain hydrocarbon-bear-
ing areas; and
(iii) the loss of correlative rights which can result
in the reduced value of national hydrocarbon resources
and disorders in the leasing of Federal and State re-
sources.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
12Sec. 6 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(2) PREVENTION OF HARMFUL EFFECTS.—The Secretary
shall prevent, through the cooperative development of an area,
the harmful effects of unrestrained competitive production of
hydrocarbons from a common hydrocarbon-bearing area under-
lying the Federal and State boundary.
ø43 U.S.C. 1334¿
SEC. 6. MAINTENANCE OF LEASES ON OUTER CONTINENTAL
SHELF.—(a) The provisions of this section shall apply to any min-
eral lease covering submerged lands of the outer Continental Shelf
issued by any State (including any extension, renewal, or replace-
ment thereof heretofore granted pursuant to such lease or under
the laws of such State) if—
(1) such lease, or a true copy thereof, is filed with the Sec-
retary by the lessee or his duly authorized agent within ninety
days from the effective date of this Act, or within such further
period or periods as provided in section 7 hereof or as may be
fixed from time to time by the Secretary;
(2) such lease was issued prior to December 21, 1948, and
would have been on June 5, 1950, in force and effect in accord-
ance with its terms and provisions and the law of the State
issuing it had the State had authority to issue such lease;
(3) there is filed with the Secretary, within the period or
periods specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection, (A) a cer-
tificate issued by the State official or agency having jurisdic-
tion over such lease stating that it would have been in force
and effect as required by the provisions of paragraph (2) of this
subsection, or (B) in the absence of such certificate, evidence
in the form of affidavits, receipts, canceled checks, or other doc-
uments that may be required by the Secretary, sufficient to
prove that such lease would have been so in force and effect;
(4) except as otherwise provided in section 7 hereof, all
rents, royalties, and other sums payable under such lease be-
tween June 5, 1950, and the effective date of this Act, which
have not been paid in accordance with the provisions thereof,
or to the Secretary or to the Secretary of the Navy, are paid
to the Secretary within the period or periods specified in para-
graph (1) of this subsection, and all rents, royalties, and other
sums payable under such lease after the effective date of this
Act, are paid to the Secretary, who shall deposit such pay-
ments in the Treasury in accordance with section 9 of this Act;
(5) the holder of such lease certifies that such lease shall
continue to be subject to the overriding royalty obligations ex-
isting on the effective date of this Act;
(6) such lease was not obtained by fraud or misrepresenta-
tion;
(7) such lease, if issued on or after June 23, 1947, was
issued upon the basis of competitive bidding;
(8) such lease provides for a royalty to the lessor on oil and
gas of not less than 121 ⁄2 per centum and on sulphur of not less
than 5 per centum in amount or value of the production saved,
removed, or sold from the lease, or, in any case in which the
lease provides for a lesser royalty, the holder thereof consents
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
13 Sec. 6OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
in writing, filed with the Secretary, to the increase of the roy-
alty to the minimum herein specified;
(9) the holder thereof pays to the Secretary within the pe-
riod or periods specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection an
amount equivalent to any severance, gross production, or occu-
pation taxes imposed by the State issuing the lease on the pro-
duction from the lease, less the State’s royalty interest in such
production, between June 5, 1950, and the effective date of this
Act and not heretofore paid to the State, and thereafter pays
to the Secretary as an additional royalty on the production
from the lease, less the United States’ royalty interest in such
production, a sum of money equal to the amount of the sever-
ance, gross production, or occupation taxes which would have
been payable on such production to the State issuing the lease
under its laws as they existed on the effective date of this Act;
(10) such lease will terminate within a period of not more
than five years from the effective date of this Act in the ab-
sence of production or operations for drilling, or, in any case
in which the lease provides for a longer period, the holder
thereof consents in writing, filed with the Secretary, to the re-
duction of such period so that it will not exceed the maximum
period herein specified; and
(11) the holder of such lease furnishes such surety bond,
if any, as the Secretary may require and complies with such
other reasonable requirements as the Secretary may deem nec-
essary to protect the interests of the United States.
(b) Any person holding a mineral lease, which as determined
by the Secretary meets the requirements of subsection (a) of this
section, may continue to maintain such lease, and may conduct op-
erations thereunder, in accordance with (1) its provisions as to the
area, the minerals covered, rentals and, subject to the provisions
of paragraphs (8), (9) and (10) of subsection (a) of this section, as
to royalties and as to the term thereof and of any extensions, re-
newals, or replacements authorized therein or heretofore author-
ized by the laws of the State issuing such lease, or, if oil or gas
was not being produced in paying quantities from such lease or or
before December 11, 1950, or if production in paying quantities has
ceased since June 5, 1950, or if the primary term of such lease has
expired since December 11, 1950, then for a term from the effective
date hereof equal to the term remaining unexpired on December
11, 1950, under the provisions of such lease or any extensions, re-
newals, or replacements authorized therein, or heretofore author-
ized by the laws of such State, and (2) such regulations as the Sec-
retary may under section 5 of this Act prescribe within ninety days
after making his determination that such lease meets the require-
ments of subsection (a) of this section: Provided, however, That any
rights to sulphur under any lease maintained under the provisions
of this subsection shall not extend beyond the primary term of such
lease or any extension thereof under the provisions of such sub-
section (b) unless sulphur is being produced in paying quantities or
drilling, well reworking, plant construction, or other operations for
the production of sulphur, as approved by the Secretary, are being
conducted on the area covered by such lease on the date of expira-
tion of such primary term or extension: Provided further, That if
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
14Sec. 7 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
sulphur is being produced in paying quantities on such date, then
such rights shall continue to be maintained in accordance with
such lease and the provisions of this Act: Provided further, That,
if the primary term of a lease being maintained under subsection
(b) hereof has expired prior to the effective date of this Act and oil
or gas is being produced in paying quantities on such date, then
such rights to sulphur as the lessee may have under such lease
shall continue for twenty-four months from the effective date of
this Act and as long thereafter as sulphur is produced in paying
quantities, or drilling, well working, plant construction, or other op-
erations for the production of sulphur, as approved by the Sec-
retary, are being conducted on the area covered by the lease.
(c) The permission granted in subsection (b) of this section
shall not be construed to be a waiver of such claims, if any, as the
United States may have against the lessor or the lessee or any
other person respecting sums payable or paid for or under the
lease, or respecting activities conducted under the lease, prior to
the effective date of this Act.
(d) Any person complaining of a negative determination by the
Secretary of the Interior under this section may have such deter-
mination reviewed by the United States District Court for the Dis-
trict of Columbia by filing a petition for review within sixty days
after receiving notice of such action by the Secretary.
(e) In the event any lease maintained under this section covers
lands beneath navigable waters, as that term is used in the Sub-
merged Lands Act, as well as lands of the outer Continental Shelf,
the provisions of this section shall apply to such lease only insofar
as it covers lands of the outer Continental Shelf.
ø43 U.S.C. 1335¿
SEC. 7. CONTROVERSY OVER JURISDICTION.—In the event of a
controversy between the United States and a State as to whether
or not lands are subject to the provisions of this Act, the Secretary
is authorized, notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and
(b) of section 6 of this Act, and with the concurrence of the Attor-
ney General of the United States, to negotiate and enter into agree-
ments with the State, its political subdivision or grantee or a lessee
thereof, respecting operations under existing mineral leases and
payment and impounding of rents, royalties, and other sums pay-
able thereunder, or with the State, its political subdivision or
grantee, respecting the issuance or nonissuance of new mineral
leases pending the settlement or adjudication of the controversy.
The authorization contained in the preceding sentence of this sec-
tion shall not be construed to be a limitation upon the authority
conferred on the Secretary in other sections of this Act. Payments
made pursuant to such agreement, or pursuant to any stipulation
between the United States and a State, shall be considered as com-
pliance with section 6(a)(4) hereof. Upon the termination of such
agreement or stipulation by reason of the final settlement or adju-
dication of such controversy, if the lands subject to any mineral
lease are determined to be in whole or in part lands subject to the
provisions of this Act, the lessee, if he has not already done so,
shall comply with the requirements of section 6(a), and thereupon
the provisions of section 6(b) shall govern such lease. The notice
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
15 Sec. 8OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
concerning ‘‘Oil and Gas Operations in the Submerged Coastal
Lands of the Gulf of Mexico’’ issued by the Secretary on December
11, 1950 (15 F. R. 8835), as amended by the notice dated January
26, 1951 (16 F. R. 953), and as supplemented by the notices dated
February 2, 1951 (16 F. R. 1203), March 5, 1951 (16 F. R. 2195),
April 23, 1951 (16 F. R. 3623), June 25, 1951 (16 F. R. 6404), Au-
gust 22, 1951 (16 F. R. 8720), October 24, 1951 (16 F. R. 10998),
December 21, 1951 (17 F. R. 43), March 25, 1952 (17 F. R. 2821),
June 26, 1952 (17 F. R. 5833), and December 24, 1952 (18 F. R.
48), respectively, is hereby approved and confirmed.
ø43 U.S.C. 1336¿
SEC. 8. LEASES, EASEMENTS, AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY ON THE
OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF.—(a)(1) The Secretary is authorized to
grant to the highest responsible qualified bidder or bidders by com-
petitive bidding, under regulations promulgated in advance, any oil
and gas lease on submerged lands of the outer Continental Shelf
which are not covered by leases meeting the requirements of sub-
section (a) of section 6 of this Act. Such regulations may provide
for the deposit of cash bids in an interest-bearing account until the
Secretary announces his decision on whether to accept the bids,
with the interest earned thereon to be paid to the Treasury as to
bids that are accepted and to the unsuccessful bidders as to bids
that are rejected. The bidding shall be by sealed bid and, at the
discretion of the Secretary, on the basis of—
(A) cash bonus bid with a royalty at not less than 162 ⁄3
percent, but not more than 183 ⁄4 percent, during the 10-year
period beginning on the date of enactment of the Act titled ‘‘An
Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con.
Res. 14’’, and not less than 162 ⁄3 percent thereafter, fixed by
the Secretary in amount or value of the production saved, re-
moved, or sold;
(B) variable royalty bid based on a per centum in amount
or value of the production saved, removed, or sold, with either
a fixed work commitment based on dollar amount for explo-
ration or a fixed cash bonus as determined by the Secretary,
or both;
(C) cash bonus bid, or work commitment bid based on a
dollar amount for exploration with a fixed cash bonus, and a
diminishing or sliding royalty based on such formulae as the
Secretary shall determine as equitable to encourage continued
production from the lease area as resources diminish, but not
less than 162 ⁄3 percent, but not more than 183 ⁄4 percent, during
the 10-year period beginning on the date of enactment of the
Act titled ‘‘An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title
II of S. Con. Res. 14’’, and not less than 162 ⁄3 percent there-
after, at the beginning of the lease period in amount or value
of the production saved, removed, or sold;
(D) cash bonus bid with a fixed share of the net profits of
no less than 30 per centum to be derived from the production
of oil and gas from the lease area;
(E) fixed cash bonus with the net profit share reserved as
the bid variable;
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
16Sec. 8 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
5 Indentation so in original. Probably should be flush.
(F) cash bonus bid with a royalty at not less than 162 ⁄3
percent, but not more than 183 ⁄4 percent, during the 10-year
period beginning on the date of enactment of the Act titled ‘‘An
Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con.
Res. 14’’, and not less than 162 ⁄3 percent thereafter, fixed by
the Secretary in amount or value of the production saved, re-
moved, or sold and a fixed per centum share of net profits of
no less than 30 per centum to be derived from the production
of oil and gas from the lease area;
(G) work commitment bid based on a dollar amount for ex-
ploration with a fixed cash bonus and a fixed royalty in
amount or value of the production saved, removed, or sold;
(H) cash bonus bid with royalty at not less than 162 ⁄3 per-
cent, but not more than 183 ⁄4 percent, during the 10-year pe-
riod beginning on the date of enactment of the Act titled ‘‘An
Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to title II of S. Con.
Res. 14’’, and not less than 162 ⁄3 percent thereafter, fixed by
the Secretary in amount or value of production saved, removed,
or sold, and with suspension of royalties for a period, volume,
or value of production determined by the Secretary, which sus-
pensions may vary based on the price of production from the
lease; or
(I) subject to the requirements of paragraph (4) of this sub-
section, any modification of bidding systems authorized in sub-
paragraphs (A) through (G), or any other systems of bid vari-
ables, terms, and conditions which the Secretary determines to
be useful to accomplish the purposes and policies of this Act,
except that no such bidding system or modification shall have
more than one bid variable.
(2) The Secretary may, in his discretion, defer any part of the
payment of the cash bonus, as authorized in paragraph (1) of this
subsection, according to a schedule announced at the time of the
announcement of the lease sale, but such payment shall be made
in total no later than five years after the date of the lease sale.
(3)(A) The Secretary may, in order to promote increased pro-
duction on the lease area, through direct, secondary, or tertiary re-
covery means, reduce or eliminate any royalty or net profit share
set forth in the lease for such area.
(B) In the Western and Central Planning Areas of the Gulf of
Mexico and the portion of the Eastern Planning Area of the Gulf
of Mexico encompassing whole lease blocks lying west of 87 de-
grees, 30 minutes West longitude and in the Planning Areas off-
shore Alaska, the Secretary may, in order to—
(i) promote development or increased production on pro-
ducing or non-producing leases; or
(ii) encourage production of marginal resources on pro-
ducing or non-producing leases;
through 5 primary, secondary, or tertiary recovery means, re-
duce or eliminate any royalty or net profit share set forth in
the lease(s). With the lessee’s consent, the Secretary may make
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
17 Sec. 8OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
other modifications to the royalty or net profit share terms of
the lease in order to achieve these purposes.
(C)(i) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act other than
this subparagraph, with respect to any lease or unit in existence
on the date of enactment of the Outer Continental Shelf Deep
Water Royalty Relief Act meeting the requirements of this subpara-
graph, no royalty payments shall be due on new production, as de-
fined in clause (iv) of this subparagraph, from any lease or unit lo-
cated in water depths of 200 meters or greater in the Western and
Central Planning Areas of the Gulf of Mexico, including that por-
tion of the Eastern Planning Area of the Gulf of Mexico encom-
passing whole lease blocks lying west of 87 degrees, 30 minutes
West longitude, until such volume of production as determined pur-
suant to clause (ii) has been produced by the lessee.
(ii) Upon submission of a complete application by the lessee,
the Secretary shall determine within 180 days of such application
whether new production from such lease or unit would be economic
in the absence of the relief from the requirement to pay royalties
provided for by clause (i) of this subparagraph. In making such de-
termination, the Secretary shall consider the increased techno-
logical and financial risk of deep water development and all costs
associated with exploring, developing, and producing from the
lease. The lessee shall provide information required for a complete
application to the Secretary prior to such determination. The Sec-
retary shall clearly define the information required for a complete
application under this section. Such application may be made on
the basis of an individual lease or unit. If the Secretary determines
that such new production would be economic in the absence of the
relief from the requirement to pay royalties provided for by clause
(i) of this subparagraph, the provisions of clause (i) shall not apply
to such production. If the Secretary determines that such new pro-
duction would not be economic in the absence of the relief from the
requirement to pay royalties provided for by clause (i), the Sec-
retary must determine the volume of production from the lease or
unit on which no royalties would be due in order to make such new
production economically viable; except that for new production as
defined in clause (iv)(I), in no case will that volume be less than
17.5 million barrels of oil equivalent in water depths of 200 to 400
meters, 52.5 million barrels of oil equivalent in 400–800 meters of
water, and 87.5 million barrels of oil equivalent in water depths
greater than 800 meters. Redetermination of the applicability of
clause (i) shall be undertaken by the Secretary when requested by
the lessee prior to the commencement of the new production and
upon significant change in the factors upon which the original de-
termination was made. The Secretary shall make such redeter-
mination within 120 days of submission of a complete application.
The Secretary may extend the time period for making any deter-
mination or redetermination under this clause for 30 days, or
longer if agreed to by the applicant, if circumstances so warrant.
The lessee shall be notified in writing of any determination or rede-
termination and the reasons for and assumptions used for such de-
termination. Any determination or redetermination under this
clause shall be a final agency action. The Secretary’s determination
or redetermination shall be judicially reviewable under section
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
18Sec. 8 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
10(a) of the Administrative Procedures Act (5 U.S.C. 702), only for
actions filed within 30 days of the Secretary’s determination or re-
determination.
(iii) In the event that the Secretary fails to make the deter-
mination or redetermination called for in clause (ii) upon applica-
tion by the lessee within the time period, together with any exten-
sion thereof, provided for by clause (ii), no royalty payments shall
be due on new production as follows:
(I) For new production, as defined in clause (iv)(I) of this
subparagraph, no royalty shall be due on such production ac-
cording to the schedule of minimum volumes specified in clause
(ii) of this subparagraph.
(II) For new production, as defined in clause (iv)(II) of this
subparagraph, no royalty shall be due on such production for
one year following the start of such production.
(iv) For purposes of this subparagraph, the term ‘‘new produc-
tion’’ is—
(I) any production from a lease from which no royalties are
due on production, other than test production, prior to the date
of enactment of the Outer Continental Shelf Deep Water Roy-
alty Relief Act; or
(II) any production resulting from lease development ac-
tivities pursuant to a Development Operations Coordination
Document, or supplement thereto that would expand produc-
tion significantly beyond the level anticipated in the Develop-
ment Operations Coordination Document, approved by the Sec-
retary after the date of enactment of the Outer Continental
Shelf Deep Water Royalty Relief Act.
(v) During the production of volumes determined pursuant to
clauses (ii) or (iii) of this subparagraph, in any year during which
the arithmetic average of the closing prices on the New York Mer-
cantile Exchange for light sweet crude oil exceeds $28.00 per bar-
rel, any production of oil will be subject to royalties at the lease
stipulated royalty rate. Any production subject to this clause shall
be counted toward the production volume determined pursuant to
clause (ii) or (iii). Estimated royalty payments will be made if such
average of the closing prices for the previous year exceeds $28.00.
After the end of the calendar year, when the new average price can
be calculated, lessees will pay any royalties due, with interest but
without penalty, or can apply for a refund, with interest, of any
overpayment.
(vi) During the production of volumes determined pursuant to
clause (ii) or (iii) of this subparagraph, in any year during which
the arithmetic average of the closing prices on the New York Mer-
cantile Exchange for natural gas exceeds $3.50 per million British
thermal units, any production of natural gas will be subject to roy-
alties at the lease stipulated royalty rate. Any production subject
to this clause shall be counted toward the production volume deter-
mined pursuant to clauses (ii) or (iii). Estimated royalty payments
will be made if such average of the closing prices for the previous
year exceeds $3.50. After the end of the calendar year, when the
new average price can be calculated, lessees will pay any royalties
due, with interest but without penalty, or can apply for a refund,
with interest, of any overpayment.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
19 Sec. 8OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(vii) The prices referred to in clauses (v) and (vi) of this sub-
paragraph shall be changed during any calendar year after 1994 by
the percentage, if any, by which the implicit price deflator for the
gross domestic product changed during the preceding calendar
year.
(4)(A) The Secretary of Energy shall submit any bidding sys-
tem authorized in subparagraph (H) of paragraph (1) to the Senate
and House of Representatives. The Secretary may institute such
bidding system unless either the Senate or the House of Represent-
atives passes a resolution of disapproval within thirty days after
receipt of the bidding system.
(B) Subparagraphs (C) through (J) of this paragraph are en-
acted by Congress—
(i) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate
and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such
they are deemed a part of the rules of each House, respec-
tively, but they are applicable only with respect to the proce-
dures to be followed in that House in the case of resolutions
described by this paragraph, and they supersede other rules
only to the extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and
(ii) with full recognition of the constitutional right of either
House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure
of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the
same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House.
(C) A resolution disapproving a bidding system submitted pur-
suant to this paragraph shall immediately be referred to a com-
mittee (and all resolutions with respect to the same request shall
be referred to the same committee) by the President of the Senate
or the Speaker of the House of Representative, as the case may be.
(D) If the committee to which has been referred any resolution
disapproving the bidding system of the Secretary has not reported
the resolution at the end of ten calendar days after its referral, it
shall be in order to move either to discharge the committee from
further consideration of the resolution or to discharge the com-
mittee from further consideration of any other resolution with re-
spect to the same bidding system which has been referred to the
committee.
(E) A motion to discharge may be made only by an individual
favoring the resolution, shall be highly privileged (except that it
may not be made after the committee has reported a resolution
with respect to the same recommendation), and debate thereon
shall be limited to not more than one hour, to be divided equally
between those favoring and those opposing the resolution. An
amendment to the motion shall not be in order, and it shall not be
in order to move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is
agreed to or disagreed to.
(F) If the motion to discharge is agreed to or disagreed to, the
motion may not be renewed, nor may another motion to discharge
the committee be made with respect to any other resolution with
respect to the same bidding system.
(G) When the committee has reported, or has been discharged
from further consideration of, a resolution as provided in this para-
graph, it shall be at any time thereafter in order (even though a
previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
20Sec. 8 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
to proceed to the consideration of the resolution. The motion shall
be highly privileged and shall not be debatable. An amendment to
the motion shall not be in order, and it shall not be in order to
move to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or dis-
agreed to.
(H) Debate on the resolution is limited to not more than two
hours, to be divided equally between those favoring and those op-
posing the resolution. A motion further to limit debate is not debat-
able. An amendment to, or motion to recommit, the resolution is
not in order, and it is not in order to move to reconsider the vote
by which the resolution is agreed to or disagreed to.
(I) Motions to postpone, made with respect to the discharge
from the committee, or the consideration of a resolution with re-
spect to a bidding system, and motions to proceed to the consider-
ation of other business, shall be decided without debate.
(J) Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the ap-
plication of the rules of the Senate or the House of Representatives,
as the case may be, to the procedure relating to a resolution with
respect to a bidding system shall be decided without debate.
(5)(A) During the five-year period commencing on the date of
enactment of this subsection, the Secretary may, in order to obtain
statistical information to determine which bidding alternatives will
best accomplish the purposes and policies of this Act, require, as
to no more than 10 per centum of the tracts offered each year, each
bidder to submit bids for any area of the outer Continental Shelf
in accordance with more than one of the bidding systems set forth
in paragraph (1) of this subsection. For such statistical purposes,
leases may be awarded using a bidding alternative selected at ran-
dom for the acquisition of valid statistical data if such bidding al-
ternative is otherwise consistent with the provisions of this Act.
(B) The bidding systems authorized by paragraph (1) of this
subsection, other than the system authorized by subparagraph (A),
shall be applied to not less than 20 per centum and not more than
60 per centum of the total area offered for leasing each year during
the five-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this sub-
section, unless the Secretary determines that the requirements set
forth in this subparagraph are inconsistent with the purposes and
policies of this Act.
(6) At least ninety days prior to notice of any lease sale under
subparagraph (D), (E), (F), or, if appropriate, (H) of paragraph (1),
the Secretary shall by regulation establish rules to govern the cal-
culation of net profits. In the event of any dispute between the
United States and a lessee concerning the calculation of the net
profits under the regulation issued pursuant to this paragraph, the
burden of proof shall be on the lessee.
(7) After an oil and gas lease is granted pursuant to any of the
work commitment options of paragraph (1) of this subsection—
(A) the lessee, at its option, shall deliver to the Secretary
upon issuance of the lease either (i) a cash deposit for the full
amount of the exploration work commitment, or (ii) a perform-
ance bond in form and substance and with a surety satisfactory
to the Secretary, in the principal amount of such exploration
work commitment assuring the Secretary that such commit-
ment shall be faithfully discharged in accordance with this sec-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
21 Sec. 8OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
tion, regulations, and the lease; and for purposes of this sub-
paragraph, the principal amount of such cash deposit or bond
may, in accordance with regulations, be periodically reduced
upon proof, satisfactory to the Secretary, that a portion of the
exploration work commitment has been satisfied;
(B) 50 per centum of all exploration expenditures on, or di-
rectly related to, the lease, including, but not limited to (i) geo-
logical investigations and related activities, (ii) geophysical in-
vestigations including seismic, geomagnetic, and gravity sur-
veys, data processing and interpretation, and (iii) exploratory
drilling, core drilling, redrilling, and well completion or aban-
donment, including the drilling of wells sufficient to determine
the size and area extent of any newly discovered field, and in-
cluding the cost of mobilization and demobilization of drilling
equipment, shall be included in satisfaction of the commit-
ment, except that the lessee’s general overhead cost shall not
be so included against the work commitment, but its cost (in-
cluding employee benefits) of employees directly assigned to
such exploration work shall be so included; and
(C) if at the end of the primary term of the lease, including
any extension thereof, the full dollar amount of the exploration
work commitment has not been satisfied, the balance shall
then be paid in cash to the Secretary.
(8) Not later than thirty days before any lease sale, the Sec-
retary shall submit to the Congress and publish in the Federal
Register a notice—
(A) identifying any bidding system which will be utilized
for such lease sale and the reasons for the utilization of such
bidding system; and
(B) designating the lease tracts selected which are to be of-
fered in such sale under the bidding system authorized by sub-
paragraph (A) of paragraph (1) and the lease tracts selected
which are to be offered under any one or more of the bidding
systems authorized by subparagraphs (B) through (H) of para-
graph (1), and the reasons such lease tracts are to be offered
under a particular bidding system.
(b) An oil and gas lease issued pursuant to this section shall—
(1) be for a tract consisting of a compact area not exceed-
ing five thousand seven hundred and sixty acres, as the Sec-
retary may determine, unless the Secretary finds that a larger
area is necessary to comprise a reasonable economic production
unit;
(2) be for an initial period of—
(A) five years; or
(B) not to exceed ten years where the Secretary finds
that such longer period is necessary to encourage explo-
ration and development in areas because of unusually deep
water or other unusually adverse conditions,
and as long after such initial period as oil or gas is produced
from the area in paying quantities, or drilling or well rework-
ing operations as approved by the Secretary are conducted
thereon;
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
22Sec. 8 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(3) require the payment of amount or value as determined
by one of the bidding systems set forth in subsection (a) of this
section;
(4) entitle the lessee to explore, develop, and produce the
oil and gas contained within the lease area, conditioned upon
due diligence requirements and the approval of the develop-
ment and production plan required by this Act;
(5) provide for suspension or cancellation of the lease dur-
ing the initial lease term or thereafter pursuant to section 5
of this Act;
(6) contain such rental and other provisions as the Sec-
retary may prescribe at the time of offering the area for lease;
and
(7) provide a requirement that the lessee offer 20 per cen-
tum of the crude oil, condensate, and natural gas liquids pro-
duced on such lease, at the market value and point of delivery
applicable to Federal royalty oil, to small or independent refin-
ers as defined in the Emergency Petroleum Allocation Act of
1973.
(c)(1) Following each notice of a proposed lease sale and before
the acceptance of bids and the issuance of leases based on such
bids, the Secretary shall allow the Attorney General, in consulta-
tion with the Federal Trade Commission, thirty days to review the
results of such lease sale, except that the Attorney General, after
consultation with the Federal Trade Commission, may agree to a
shorter review period.
(2) The Attorney General may, in consultation with the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, conduct such antitrust review on the likely
effects the issuance of such leases would have on competition as
the Attorney General, after consultation with the Federal Trade
Commission, deems appropriate and shall advise the Secretary
with respect to such review. The Secretary shall provide such infor-
mation as the Attorney General, after consultation with the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, may require in order to conduct any anti-
trust review pursuant to this paragraph and to make recommenda-
tions pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subsection.
(3) The Attorney General, after consultation with the Federal
Trade Commission, may make such recommendations to the Sec-
retary, including the nonacceptance of any bid, as may be appro-
priate to prevent any situation inconsistent with the antitrust laws.
If the Secretary determines, or if the Attorney General advises the
Secretary, after consultation with the Federal Trade Commission
and prior to the issuance of any lease, that such lease may create
or maintain a situation inconsistent with the antitrust laws, the
Secretary may—
(A) refuse (i) to accept an otherwise qualified bid for such
lease, or (ii) to issue such lease, notwithstanding subsection (a)
of this section; or
(B) issue such lease, and notify the lessee and the Attorney
General of the reason for such decision.
(4)(A) Nothing in this subsection shall restrict the power under
any other Act or the common law of the Attorney General, the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, or any other Federal department or agency
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
23 Sec. 8OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
to secure information, conduct reviews, make recommendations, or
seek appropriate relief.
(B) Neither the issuance of a lease nor anything in this sub-
section shall modify or abridge any private right of action under
the antitrust laws.
(d) No bid for a lease may be submitted if the Secretary finds,
after notice and hearing, that the bidder is not meeting due dili-
gence requirements on other leases.
(e) No lease issued under this Act may be sold, exchanged, as-
signed, or otherwise transferred except with the approval of the
Secretary. Prior to any such approval, the Secretary shall consult
with and give due consideration to the views of the Attorney Gen-
eral.(f) Nothing in this Act shall be deemed to convey to any per-
son, association, corporation, or other business organization immu-
nity from civil or criminal liability, or to create defenses to actions,
under any antitrust law.
(g)(1) At the time of soliciting nominations for the leasing of
lands containing tracts wholly or partially within three nautical
miles of the seaward boundary of any coastal State, and subse-
quently as new information is obtained or developed by the Sec-
retary, the Secretary, in addition to the information required by
section 26 of this Act, shall provide the Governor of such State—
(A) an identification and schedule of the areas and regions
proposed to be offered for leasing;
(B) at the request of the Governor of such State, all infor-
mation from all sources concerning the geographical, geologi-
cal, and ecological characteristics of such tracts;
(C) an estimate of the oil and gas reserves in the areas
proposed for leasing; and
(D) at the request of the Governor of such State, an identi-
fication of any field, geological structure, or trap located wholly
or partially within three nautical miles of the seaward bound-
ary of such coastal State, including all information relating to
the entire field, geological structure, or trap.
The provisions of the first sentence of subsection (c) and the provi-
sions of subsections (e)–(h) of section 26 of this Act shall be applica-
ble to the release by the Secretary of any information to any coast-
al State under this paragraph. In addition, the provisions of sub-
sections (c) and (e)–(h) of section 26 of this Act shall apply in their
entirety to the release by the Secretary to any coastal State of any
information relating to Federal lands beyond three nautical miles
of the seaward boundary of such coastal State.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall deposit into a separate account in the Treasury of the
United States all bonuses, rents, and royalties, and other revenues
(derived from any bidding system authorized under subsection
(a)(1), excluding Federal income and windfall profits taxes, and de-
rived from any lease issued after September 18, 1978 of any Fed-
eral tract which lies wholly (or, in the case of Alaska, partially
until seven years from the date of settlement of any boundary dis-
pute that is the subject of an agreement under section 7 of this Act
entered into prior to January 1, 1986 or until April 15, 1993 with
respect to any other tract) within three nautical miles of the sea-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
24Sec. 8 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
ward boundary of any coastal State, or, (except as provided above
for Alaska) in the case where a Federal tract lies partially within
three nautical miles of the seaward boundary, a percentage of bo-
nuses, rents, royalties, and other revenues (derived from any bid-
ding system authorized under subsection (a)(1), excluding Federal
income and windfall profits taxes, and derived from any lease
issued after September 18, 1978 of such tract equal to the percent-
age of surface acreage of the tract that lies within such three nau-
tical miles. Except as provided in paragraph (5) of this subsection,
not later than the last business day of the month following the
month in which those revenues are deposited in the Treasury, the
Secretary shall transmit to such coastal State 27 percent of those
revenues, together with all accrued interest thereon. The remain-
ing balance of such revenues shall be transmitted simultaneously
to the miscellaneous receipts account of the Treasury of the United
States.
(3) Whenever the Secretary or the Governor of a coastal State
determines that a common potentially hydrocarbon-bearing area
may underlie the Federal and State boundary, the Secretary or the
Governor shall notify the other party in writing of his determina-
tion and the Secretary shall provide to the Governor notice of the
current and projected status of the tract or tracts containing the
common potentially hydrocarbon-bearing area. If the Secretary has
leased or intends to lease such tract or tracts, the Secretary and
the Governor of the coastal State may enter into an agreement to
divide the revenues from production of any common potentially hy-
drocarbon-bearing area, by unitization or other royalty sharing
agreement, pursuant to existing law. If the Secretary and the Gov-
ernor do not enter into an agreement, the Secretary may neverthe-
less proceed with the leasing of the tract or tracts. Any revenue re-
ceived by the United States under such an agreement shall be sub-
ject to the requirements of paragraph (2).
(4) The deposits in the Treasury account described in this sec-
tion shall be invested by the Secretary of the Treasury in securities
backed by the full faith and credit of the United States having ma-
turities suitable to the needs of the account and yielding the high-
est reasonably available interest rates as determined by the Sec-
retary of the Treasury.
(5)(A) When there is a boundary dispute between the United
States and a State which is subject to an agreement under section
7 of this Act, the Secretary shall credit to the account established
pursuant to such agreement all bonuses, rents, and royalties, and
other revenues (derived from any bidding system authorized under
subsection (a)(1)), excluding Federal income and windfall profits
taxes, and derived from any lease issued after September 18, 1978
of any Federal tract which lies wholly or partially within three
nautical miles of the seaward boundary asserted by the State, if
that money has not otherwise been deposited in such account. Pro-
ceeds of an escrow account established pursuant to an agreement
under section 7 shall be distributed as follows:
(i) Twenty-seven percent of all bonuses, rents, and royal-
ties, and other revenues (derived from any bidding system au-
thorized under subsection (a)(1)), excluding Federal income and
windfall profits taxes, and derived from any lease issued after
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
25 Sec. 8OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
September 18, 1978, of any tract which lies wholly within three
nautical miles of the seaward boundary asserted by the Fed-
eral Government in the boundary dispute, together with all ac-
crued interest thereon, shall be paid to the State either—
(I) within thirty days of December 1, 1987, or
(II) by the last business day of the month following the
month in which those revenues are deposited in the Treas-
ury, whichever date is later.
(ii) Upon the settlement of a boundary dispute which is
subject to a section 7 agreement between the United States
and a State, the Secretary shall pay to such State any addi-
tional moneys due such State from amounts deposited in or
credited to the escrow account. If there is insufficient money
deposited in the escrow account, the Secretary shall transmit,
from any revenues derived from any lease of Federal lands
under this Act, the remaining balance due such State in ac-
cordance with the formula set forth in section 8004(b)(1)(B) of
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act Amendments of 1985.
(B) This paragraph applies to all Federal oil and gas lease
sales, under this Act, including joint lease sales, occurring after
September 18, 1978.
(6) This section shall be deemed to take effect on October 1,
1985, for purposes of determining the amounts to be deposited in
the separate account and the States’ shares described in paragraph
(2). (7) When the Secretary leases any tract which lies wholly or
partially within three miles of the seaward boundary of two or
more States, the revenues from such tract shall be distributed as
otherwise provided by this section, except that the State’s share of
such revenues that would otherwise result under this section shall
be divided equally among such States.
(h) Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
alter, limit, or modify any claim of any State to any jurisdiction
over, or any right, title or interest in, any submerged lands.
(i) In order to meet the urgent need for further exploration and
development of the sulphur deposits in the submerged lands of the
outer Continental Shelf, the Secretary is authorized to grant to the
qualified persons offering the highest cash bonuses on a basis of
competitive bidding sulphur leases on submerged lands of the outer
Continental Shelf, which are not covered by leases which include
sulphur and meet the requirements of subsection (a) of section 6
of this Act, and which sulphur leases shall be offered for bid by
sealed bids and granted on separate leases from oil and gas leases,
and for a separate consideration, and without priority or preference
accorded to oil and gas lessees on the same area.
(j) A sulphur lease issued by the Secretary pursuant to this
section shall (1) cover an area of such size and dimensions as the
Secretary may determine, (2) be for a period of not more than ten
years and so long thereafter as sulphur may be produced from the
area in paying quantities or drilling, well reworking, plant con-
struction, or other operations for the production of sulphur, as ap-
proved by the Secretary, are conducted thereon, (3) require the
payment to the United States of such royalty as may be specified
in the lease but not less than 5 per centum of the gross production
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
26Sec. 8 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
of value of the sulphur at the wellhead, and (4) contained such
rental provisions and such other terms and provisions as the Sec-
retary may by regulation prescribe at the time of offering the area
for lease.
(k)(1) The Secretary is authorized to grant to the qualified per-
sons offering the highest cash bonuses on a basis of competitive
bidding leases of any mineral other than oil, gas, and sulphur in
any area of the outer Continental Shelf not then under lease for
such mineral upon such royalty, rental, and other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary may prescribe at the time of offering the
area for lease.
(2)(A) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary may nego-
tiate with any person an agreement for the use of Outer Conti-
nental Shelf sand, gravel and shell resources—
(i) for use in a program of, or project for, shore protection,
beach restoration, or coastal wetlands restoration undertaken
by a Federal, State, or local government agency; or
(ii) for use in a construction project, other than a project
described in clause (i), that is funded in whole or in part by
or authorized by the Federal Government.
(B) In carrying out a negotiation under this paragraph, the
Secretary may assess a fee based on an assessment of the value of
the resources and the public interest served by promoting develop-
ment of the resources. No fee shall be assessed directly or indi-
rectly under this subparagraph against a Federal, State, or local
government agency.
(C) The Secretary may, through this paragraph and in con-
sultation with the Secretary of Commerce, seek to facilitate
projects in the coastal zone, as such term is defined in section 304
of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453), that
promote the policy set forth in section 303 of that Act (16 U.S.C.
1452).
(D) Any Federal agency which proposes to make use of sand,
gravel and shell resources subject to the provisions of this Act shall
enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with the Secretary con-
cerning the potential use of those resources. The Secretary shall
notify the Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries and the
Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate
on any proposed project for the use of those resources prior to the
use of those resources.
(l) Notices of sale of leases, and the terms of bidding author-
ized by this section shall be published at least thirty days before
the date of sale in accordance with rules and regulations promul-
gated by the Secretary.
(m) All moneys paid to the Secretary for or under leases grant-
ed pursuant to this section shall be deposited in the Treasury in
accordance with section 9 of this Act.
(n) The issuance of any lease by the Secretary pursuant to this
Act, or the making of any interim arrangements by the Secretary
pursuant to section 7 of this Act shall not prejudice the ultimate
settlement or adjudication of the question as to whether or not the
area involved is in the outer Continental Shelf.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
27 Sec. 8OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(o) The Secretary may cancel any lease obtained by fraud or
misrepresentation.
(p) LEASES, EASEMENTS, OR RIGHTS-OF- WAY FOR ENERGY AND
R ELATED PURPOSES.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—The Secretary, in consultation with the
Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is oper-
ating and other relevant departments and agencies of the Fed-
eral Government, may grant a lease, easement, or right-of-way
on the outer Continental Shelf for activities not otherwise au-
thorized in this Act, the Deepwater Port Act of 1974 (33 U.S.C.
1501 et seq.), the Ocean Thermal Energy Conversion Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9101 et seq.), or other applicable law, if those
activities—
(A) support exploration, development, production, or
storage of oil or natural gas, except that a lease, easement,
or right-of-way shall not be granted in an area in which
oil and gas preleasing, leasing, and related activities are
prohibited by a moratorium;
(B) support transportation of oil or natural gas, ex-
cluding shipping activities;
(C) produce or support production, transportation,
storage, or transmission of energy from sources other than
oil and gas;
(D) use, for energy-related purposes or for other au-
thorized marine-related purposes, facilities currently or
previously used for activities authorized under this Act, ex-
cept that any oil and gas energy-related uses shall not be
authorized in areas in which oil and gas preleasing, leas-
ing, and related activities are prohibited by a moratorium;
or (E) provide for, support, or are directly related to the
injection of a carbon dioxide stream into sub-seabed geo-
logic formations for the purpose of long-term carbon se-
questration.
(2) PAYMENTS AND REVENUES.—(A) The Secretary shall es-
tablish royalties, fees, rentals, bonuses, or other payments to
ensure a fair return to the United States for any lease, ease-
ment, or right-of-way granted under this subsection.
(B) The Secretary shall provide for the payment of 27 per-
cent of the revenues received by the Federal Government as a
result of payments under this section from projects that are lo-
cated wholly or partially within the area extending three nau-
tical miles seaward of State submerged lands. Payments shall
be made based on a formula established by the Secretary by
rulemaking no later than 180 days after the date of enactment
of this section that provides for equitable distribution, based on
proximity to the project, among coastal states that have a
coastline that is located within 15 miles of the geographic cen-
ter of the project.
(3) COMPETITIVE OR NONCOMPETITIVE BASIS.—Except with
respect to projects that meet the criteria established under sec-
tion 388(d) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Secretary
shall issue a lease, easement, or right-of-way under paragraph
(1) on a competitive basis unless the Secretary determines
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
28Sec. 8 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
after public notice of a proposed lease, easement, or right-of-
way that there is no competitive interest.
(4) REQUIREMENTS.—The Secretary shall ensure that any
activity under this subsection is carried out in a manner that
provides for—
(A) safety;
(B) protection of the environment;
(C) prevention of waste;
(D) conservation of the natural resources of the outer
Continental Shelf;
(E) coordination with relevant Federal agencies;
(F) protection of national security interests of the
United States;
(G) protection of correlative rights in the outer Conti-
nental Shelf;
(H) a fair return to the United States for any lease,
easement, or right-of-way under this subsection;
(I) prevention of interference with reasonable uses (as
determined by the Secretary) of the exclusive economic
zone, the high seas, and the territorial seas;
(J) consideration of—
(i) the location of, and any schedule relating to, a
lease, easement, or right-of-way for an area of the
outer Continental Shelf; and
(ii) any other use of the sea or seabed, including
use for a fishery, a sealane, a potential site of a deep-
water port, or navigation;
(K) public notice and comment on any proposal sub-
mitted for a lease, easement, or right-of-way under this
subsection; and
(L) oversight, inspection, research, monitoring, and en-
forcement relating to a lease, easement, or right-of-way
under this subsection.
(5) LEASE DURATION, SUSPENSION, AND CANCELLATION.—
The Secretary shall provide for the duration, issuance, trans-
fer, renewal, suspension, and cancellation of a lease, easement,
or right-of-way under this subsection.
(6) SECURITY.—The Secretary shall require the holder of a
lease, easement, or right-of-way granted under this subsection
to—
(A) furnish a surety bond or other form of security, as
prescribed by the Secretary;
(B) comply with such other requirements as the Sec-
retary considers necessary to protect the interests of the
public and the United States; and
(C) provide for the restoration of the lease, easement,
or right-of-way.
(7) COORDINATION AND CONSULTATION WITH AFFECTED
STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.—The Secretary shall provide
for coordination and consultation with the Governor of any
State or the executive of any local government that may be af-
fected by a lease, easement, or right-of-way under this sub-
section.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
29 Sec. 11OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(8) REGULATIONS.—Not later than 270 days after the date
of enactment of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Secretary,
in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, the
Secretary of Commerce, heads of other relevant departments
and agencies of the Federal Government, and the Governor of
any affected State, shall issue any necessary regulations to
carry out this subsection.
(9) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in this subsection
displaces, supersedes, limits, or modifies the jurisdiction, re-
sponsibility, or authority of any Federal or State agency under
any other Federal law.
(10) APPLICABILITY.—This subsection does not apply to any
area on the outer Continental Shelf within the exterior bound-
aries of any unit of the National Park System, National Wild-
life Refuge System, or National Marine Sanctuary System, or
any National Monument.
ø43 U.S.C. 1337¿
SEC. 9. DISPOSITION OF REVENUES.—All rentals, royalties, and
other sums paid to the Secretary or the Secretary of the Navy
under any lease on the outer Continental Shelf for the period from
June 5, 1950, to date, and thereafter shall be deposited in the
Treasury of the United States and credited to miscellaneous re-
ceipts.
ø43 U.S.C. 1338¿
øSEC. 10. Repealed by section 8(b) of P.L. 104–185, 110 Stat.
1717.¿
S EC. 11. GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EXPLORATIONS.—(a)(1)
Any agency of the United States and any person authorized by the
Secretary may conduct geological and geophysical explorations in
the outer Continental Shelf, which do not interfere with or endan-
ger actual operations under any lease maintained or granted pur-
suant to this Act, and which are not unduly harmful to aquatic life
in such area.
(2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not
apply to any person conducting explorations pursuant to an ap-
proved exploration plan on any area under lease to such person
pursuant to the provisions of this Act.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (f) of this section, begin-
ning ninety days after the date of enactment of this subsection, no
exploration pursuant to any oil and gas lease issued or maintained
under this Act may be undertaken by the holder of such lease, ex-
cept in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(c)(1) Except as otherwise provided in the Act, prior to com-
mencing exploration pursuant to any oil and gas lease issued or
maintained under this Act, the holder thereof shall submit an ex-
ploration plan to the Secretary for approval. Such plan may apply
to more than one lease held by a lessee in any one region of the
outer Continental Shelf, or by a group of lessees acting under a
unitization, pooling, or drilling agreement, and shall be approved
by the Secretary if he finds that such plan is consistent with the
provisions of this Act, regulations prescribed under this Act, includ-
ing regulations prescribed by the Secretary pursuant to paragraph
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
30Sec. 11 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(8) of section 5(a) of this Act, and the provisions of such lease. The
Secretary shall require such modifications of such plan as are nec-
essary to achieve such consistency. The Secretary shall approve
such plan, as submitted or modified, within thirty days of its sub-
mission, except that the Secretary shall disapprove such plan if he
determines that (A) any proposed activity under such plan would
result in any condition described in section 5(a)(2)(A)(i) of this Act,
and (B) such proposed activity cannot be modified to avoid such
condition. If the Secretary disapproves a plan under the preceding
sentence, he may, subject to section 5(a)(2)(B) of this Act, cancel
such lease and the lessee shall be entitled to compensation in ac-
cordance with the regulations prescribed under section 5(a)(2)(C) (i)
or (ii) of this Act.
(2) The Secretary shall not grant any license or permit for any
activity described in detail in an exploration plan and affecting any
land use or water use in the coastal zone of a State with a coastal
zone management program approved pursuant to section 306 of the
Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455), unless the
State concurs or is conclusively presumed to concur with the con-
sistency certification accompanying such plan pursuant to section
307(c)(3)(B) (i) or (ii) of such Act, or the Secretary of Commerce
makes the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of such
Act. (3) An exploration plan submitted under this subsection shall
include, in the degree of detail which the Secretary may by regula-
tion require—
(A) a schedule of anticipated exploration activities to be
undertaken;
(B) a description of equipment to be used for such activi-
ties; (C) the general location of each well to be drilled; and
(D) such other information deemed pertinent by the Sec-
retary.
(4) The Secretary may, by regulation, require that such plan be
accompanied by a general statement of development and produc-
tion intentions which shall be for planning purposes only and
which shall not be binding on any party.
(d) The Secretary may, by regulation, require any lessee oper-
ating under an approved exploration plan to obtain a permit prior
to drilling any well in accordance with such plan.
(e)(1) If a significant revision of an exploration plan approved
under this subsection is submitted to the Secretary, the process to
be used for the approval of such revision shall be the same as set
forth in subsection (c) of this section.
(2) All exploration activities pursuant to any lease shall be con-
ducted in accordance with an approved exploration plan or an ap-
proved revision of such plan.
(f)(1) Exploration activities pursuant to any lease for which a
drilling permit has been issued or for which an exploration plan
has been approved, prior to ninety days after the date of enactment
of this subsection, shall be considered in compliance with this sec-
tion, except that the Secretary may, in accordance with section
5(a)(1)(B) of this Act, order a suspension or temporary prohibition
of any exploration activities and require a revised exploration plan.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
31 Sec. 12OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(2) The Secretary may require the holder of a lease described
in paragraph (1) of this subsection to supply a general statement
in accordance with subsection (c)(4) of this section, or to submit
other information.
(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to amend the
terms of any permit or plan to which this subsection applies.
(g) Any permit for geological explorations authorized by this
section shall be issued only if the Secretary determines, in accord-
ance with regulations issued by the Secretary that—
(1) the applicant for such permit is qualified;
(2) the exploration will not interfere with or endanger op-
erations under any lease issued or maintained pursuant to this
Act; and
(3) such exploration will not be unduly harmful to aquatic
life in the area, result in pollution, create hazardous or unsafe
conditions, unreasonably interfere with other uses of the area,
or disturb any site, structure, or object of historical or archeo-
logical significance.
(h) The Secretary shall not issue a lease or permit for, or other-
wise allow, exploration, development, or production activities with-
in fifteen miles of the boundaries of the Point Reyes Wilderness as
depicted on a map entitled ‘‘Wilderness Plan, Point Reyes National
Seashore’’, numbered 612–90,000–B and dated September 1976,
unless the State of California issues a lease or permit for, or other-
wise allows, exploration, development, or production activities on
lands beneath navigable waters (as such term is defined in section
2 of the Submerged Lands Act) of such State which are adjacent
to such Wilderness.
ø43 U.S.C. 1340¿
SEC. 12. RESERVATIONS.—(a) The President of the United
States may, from time to time, withdraw from disposition any of
the unleased lands of the outer Continental Shelf.
(b) In time of war, or when the President shall so prescribe,
the United States shall have the right of first refusal to purchase
at the market price all or any portion of any mineral produced from
the outer Continental Shelf.
(c) All leases issued under this Act, and leases, the mainte-
nance and operation of which are authorized under this Act, shall
contain or be construed to contain a provision whereby authority
is vested in the Secretary, upon a recommendation of the Secretary
of Defense, during a state of war or national emergency declared
by the Congress or the President of the United States after the ef-
fective date of this Act, to suspend operations under any lease; and
all such leases shall contain or be construed to contain provisions
for the payment of just compensation to the lessee whose oper-
ations are thus suspended.
(d) The United States reserves and retains the right to des-
ignate by and through the Secretary of Defense, with the approval
of the President, as areas restricted from exploration and operation
that part of the outer Continental Shelf needed for national de-
fense; and so long as such designation remains in effect no explo-
ration or operations may be conducted on any part of the surface
of such area except with the concurrence of the Secretary of De-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
32Sec. 13 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
fense; and if operations or production under any lease theretofore
issued on lands within any such restricted area shall be suspended,
any payment of rentals, minimum royalty, and royalty prescribed
by such lease likewise shall be suspended during such period of
suspension of operation and production, and the term of such lease
shall be extended by adding thereto any such suspension period,
and the United States shall be liable to the lessee for such com-
pensation as is required to be paid under the Constitution of the
United States.
(e) All uranium, thorium, and all other materials determined
pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of section 5 of the
Atomic Energy Act of 1946, as amended, to be peculiarly essential
to the production of fissionable material, contained, in whatever
concentration, in deposits in the subsoil or seabed of the outer Con-
tinental Shelf are hereby reserved for the use of the United States.
(f) The United States reserves and retains the ownership of
and the right to extract all helium, under such rules and regula-
tions as shall be prescribed by the Secretary, contained in gas pro-
duced from any portion of the outer Continental Shelf which may
be subject to any lease maintained or granted pursuant to this Act,
but the helium shall be extracted from such gas so as to cause no
substantial delay in the delivery of gas produced to the purchaser
of such gas.
ø43 U.S.C. 1341¿
SEC. 13. NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVE EXECUTIVE ORDER RE-
PEALED.—Executive Order Numbered 10426, dated January 16,
1953, entitled ‘‘Setting Aside Submerged Lands of the Continental
Shelf as a Naval Petroleum Reserve’’, is hereby revoked.
ø43 U.S.C. 524 note¿
SEC. 14. PRIOR CLAIMS NOT AFFECTED.—Nothing herein con-
tained shall affect such rights, if any, as may have been acquired
under any law of the United States by any person in lands subject
to this Act and such rights, if any, shall be governed by the law
in effect at the time they may have been acquired: Provided, how-
ever, That nothing herein contained is intended or shall be con-
strued as a finding, interpretation, or construction by the Congress
that the law under which such rights may be claimed in fact ap-
plies to the lands subject to this Act or authorizes or compels the
granting of such rights in such lands, and that the determination
of the applicability or effect of such law shall be unaffected by any-
thing herein contained.
ø43 U.S.C. 1342¿
øSEC. 15. Repealed by section 901(l)(1) of Public Law 105–362,
112 Stat. 3290.¿
S EC. 16. APPROPRIATIONS.—There is hereby authorized to be
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the provi-
sions of this Act.
ø43 U.S.C. 1331 note¿
SEC. 17. SEPARABILITY.—If any provision of this Act, or any
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or individual word, or
the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held in-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
33 Sec. 18OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
valid, the validity of the remainder of the Act and of the applica-
tion of any such provision, section, subsection, sentence, clause,
phrase or individual word to other persons and circumstances shall
not be affected thereby.
ø43 U.S.C. 1331 note¿
SEC. 18. OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LEASING PROGRAM.—(a)
The Secretary, pursuant to procedures set forth in subsections (c)
and (d) of this section, shall prepare and periodically revise, and
maintain an oil and gas leasing program to implement the policies
of this Act. The leasing program shall consist of a schedule of pro-
posed lease sales indicating, as precisely as possible, the size, tim-
ing, and location of leasing activity which he determines will best
meet national energy needs for the five-year period following its ap-
proval or reapproval. Such leasing program shall be prepared and
maintained in a manner consistent with the following principles:
(1) Management of the outer Continental Shelf shall be
conducted in a manner which considers economic, social, and
environmental values of the renewable and nonrenewable re-
sources contained in the outer Continental Shelf, and the po-
tential impact of oil and gas exploration on other resource val-
ues of the outer Continental Shelf and the marine, coastal, and
human environments.
(2) Timing and location of exploration, development, and
production of oil and gas among the oil- and gas-bearing
physiographic regions of the outer Continental Shelf shall be
based on a consideration of—
(A) existing information concerning the geographical,
geological, and ecological characteristics of such regions;
(B) an equitable sharing of developmental benefits and
environmental risks among the various regions;
(C) the location of such regions with respect to, and
the relative needs of, regional and national energy mar-
kets;
(D) the location of such regions with respect to other
uses of the sea and seabed, including fisheries, navigation,
existing or proposed sealanes, potential sites of deepwater
ports, and other anticipated uses of the resources and
space of the outer Continental Shelf;
(E) the interest of potential oil and gas producers in
the development of oil and gas resources as indicated by
exploration or nomination;
(F) laws, goals, and policies of affected States which
have been specifically identified by the Governors of such
States as relevant matters for the Secretary’s consider-
ation;
(G) the relative environmental sensitivity and marine
productivity of different areas of the outer Continental
Shelf; and
(H) relevant environmental and predictive information
for different areas of the outer Continental Shelf.
(3) The Secretary shall select the timing and location of
leasing, to the maximum extent practicable, so as to obtain a
proper balance between the potential for environmental dam-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
34Sec. 18 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
age, the potential for the discovery of oil and gas, and the po-
tential for adverse impact on the coastal zone.
(4) Leasing activities shall be conducted to assure receipt
of fair market value for the lands leased and the rights con-
veyed by the Federal Government.
(b) The leasing program shall include estimates of the appro-
priations and staff required to—
(1) obtain resource information and any other information
needed to prepare the leasing program required by this section;
(2) analyze and interpret the exploratory data and any
other information which may be compiled under the authority
of this Act;
(3) conduct environmental studies and prepare any envi-
ronmental impact statement required in accordance with this
Act and with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)); and
(4) supervise operations conducted pursuant to each lease
in the manner necessary to assure due diligence in the explo-
ration and development of the lease area and compliance with
the requirement of applicable laws and regulations, and with
the terms of the lease.
(c)(1) During the preparation of any proposed leasing program
under this section, the Secretary shall invite and consider sugges-
tions for such program from any interested Federal agency, includ-
ing the Attorney General, in consultation with the Federal Trade
Commission, and from the Governor of any State which may be-
come an affected State under such proposed program. The Sec-
retary may also invite or consider any suggestions from the execu-
tive of any affected local government in such an affected State,
which have been previously submitted to the Governor of such
State, and from any other person.
(2) After such preparation and at least sixty days prior to pub-
lication of a proposed leasing program in the Federal Register pur-
suant to paragraph (3) of this subsection, the Secretary shall sub-
mit a copy of such proposed program to the Governor of each af-
fected State for review and comment. The Governor may solicit
comments from those executives of local governments in his State
which he, in his discretion, determines will be affected by the pro-
posed program. If any comment by such Governor is received by
the Secretary at least fifteen days prior to submission to the Con-
gress pursuant to such paragraph (3) and includes a request for
any modification of such proposed program, the Secretary shall
reply in writing, granting or denying such request in whole or in
part, or granting such request in such modified form as the Sec-
retary considers appropriate, and stating his reasons therefor. All
such correspondence between the Secretary and Governor of any af-
fected State, together with any additional information and data re-
lating thereto, shall accompany such proposed program when it is
submitted to the Congress.
(3) Within nine months after the date of enactment of this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall submit a proposed leasing program to the
Congress, the Attorney General, and the Governors of affected
States, and shall publish such proposed program in the Federal
Register. Each Governor shall, upon request, submit a copy of the
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
35 Sec. 18OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
proposed leasing program to the executive of any local government
affected by the proposed program.
(d)(1) Within ninety days after the date of publication of a pro-
posed leasing program, the Attorney General may, after consulta-
tion with the Federal Trade Commission, submit comments on the
anticipated effects of such proposed program upon competition. Any
State, local government, or other person may submit comments and
recommendations as to any aspect of such proposed program.
(2) At least sixty days prior to approving a proposed leasing
program, the Secretary shall submit it to the President and the
Congress, together with any comments received. Such submission
shall indicate why any specific recommendation of the Attorney
General or a State or local government was not accepted.
(3) After the leasing program has been approved by the Sec-
retary, or after eighteen months following the date of enactment of
this section, whichever first occurs, no lease shall be issued unless
it is for an area included in the approved leasing program and un-
less it contains provisions consistent with the approved leasing pro-
gram, except that leasing shall be permitted to continue until such
program is approved and for so long thereafter as such program is
under judicial or administrative review pursuant to the provisions
of this Act.
(e) The Secretary shall review the leasing program approved
under this section at least once each year. He may revise and re-
approve such program, at any time, and such revision and re-
approval, except in the case of a revision which is not significant,
shall be in the same manner as originally developed.
(f) The Secretary shall, by regulation, establish procedures
for— (1) receipt and consideration of nominations for any area
to be offered for lease or to be excluded from leasing;
(2) public notice of and participation in development of the
leasing program;
(3) review by State and local governments which may be
impacted by the proposed leasing;
(4) periodic consultation with State and local governments,
oil and gas lessees and permittees, and representatives of other
individuals or organizations engaged in activity in or on the
outer Continental Shelf, including those involved in fish and
shellfish recovery, and recreational activities; and
(5) consideration of the coastal zone management program
being developed or administered by an affected coastal State
pursuant to section 305 or section 306 of the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1454, 1455).
Such procedures shall be applicable to any significant revision or
reapproval of the leasing program.
(g) The Secretary may obtain from public sources, or purchase
from private sources, any survey, data, report, or other information
(including interpretations of such data, survey, report, or other in-
formation) which may be necessary to assist him in preparing any
environmental impact statement and in making other evaluations
required by this Act. Data of a classified nature provided to the
Secretary under the provisions of this subsection shall remain con-
fidential for such period of time as agreed to by the head of the de-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
36Sec. 19 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
6 Margin of subsection (i) is so in law.
partment or agency from whom the information is requested. The
Secretary shall maintain the confidentiality of all privileged or pro-
prietary data or information for such period of time as is provided
for in this Act, established by regulation, or agreed to by the par-
ties.
(h) The heads of all Federal departments and agencies shall
provide the Secretary with any nonprivileged or nonproprietary in-
formation he requests to assist him in preparing the leasing pro-
gram and may provide the Secretary with any privileged or propri-
etary information he requests to assist him in preparing the leas-
ing program. Privileged or proprietary information provided to the
Secretary under the provisions of this subsection shall remain con-
fidential for such period of time as agreed to by the head of the de-
partment or agency from whom the information is requested. In ad-
dition, the Secretary shall utilize the existing capabilities and re-
sources of such Federal departments and agencies by appropriate
agreement. (i) 6 APPLICATION.—This section shall not apply to
the scheduling of any lease sale in an area of the outer
Continental Shelf that is adjacent to the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the
United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of
the Northern Mariana Islands.
ø43 U.S.C. 1344¿
SEC. 19. COORDINATION AND CONSULTATION WITH AFFECTED
S TATES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.—(a) Any Governor of any af-
fected State or the executive of any affected local government in
such State may submit recommendations to the Secretary regard-
ing the size, timing, or location of a proposed lease sale or with re-
spect to a proposed development and production plan. Prior to sub-
mitting recommendations to the Secretary, the executive of any af-
fected local government in any affected State must forward his rec-
ommendations to the Governor of such State.
(b) Such recommendations shall be submitted within sixty days
after notice of such proposed lease sale or after receipt of such de-
velopment and production plan.
(c) The Secretary shall accept recommendations of the Gov-
ernor and may accept recommendations of the executive of any af-
fected local government if he determines, after having provided the
opportunity for consultation, that they provide for a reasonable bal-
ance between the national interest and the well-being of the citi-
zens of the affected State. For purposes of this subsection, a deter-
mination of the national interest shall be based on the desirability
of obtaining oil and gas supplies in a balanced manner and on the
findings, purposes, and policies of this Act. The Secretary shall
communicate to the Governor, in writing, the reasons for his deter-
mination to accept or reject such Governor’s recommendations, or
to implement any alternative means identified in consultation with
the Governor to provide for a reasonable balance between the na-
tional interest and the well-being of the citizens of the affected
State.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
37 Sec. 20OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(d) The Secretary’s determination that recommendations pro-
vide, or do not provide, for a reasonable balance between the na-
tional interest and the well-being of the citizens of the affected
State shall be final and shall not, alone, be a basis for invalidation
of a proposed lease sale or a proposed development and production
plan in any suit or judicial review pursuant to section 23 of this
Act, unless found to be arbitrary or capricious.
(e) The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative agree-
ments with affected States for purposes which are consistent with
this Act and other applicable Federal law. Such agreements may
include, but need not be limited to, the sharing of information (in
accordance with the provisions of section 26 of this Act), the joint
utilization of available expertise, the facilitating of permitting pro-
cedures, joint planning and review, and the formation of joint sur-
veillance and monitoring arrangements to carry out applicable Fed-
eral and State laws, regulations, and stipulations relevant to outer
Continental Shelf operations both onshore and offshore.
ø43 U.S.C. 1345¿
SEC. 20. ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES.—(a)(1) The Secretary shall
conduct a study of any area or region included in any oil and gas
lease sale or other lease in order to establish information needed
for assessment and management of environmental impacts on the
human, marine, and coastal environments of the outer Continental
Shelf and the coastal areas which may be affected by oil and gas
or other mineral development in such area or region.
(2) Each study required by paragraph (1) of this subsection
shall be commenced not later than six months after the date of en-
actment of this section with respect to any area or region where a
lease sale has been held or announced by publication of a notice of
proposed lease sale before such date of enactment, and not later
than six months prior to the holding of a lease sale with respect
to any area or region where no lease sale has been held or sched-
uled before such date of enactment. In the case of an agreement
under section 8(k)(2), each study required by paragraph (1) of this
subsection shall be commenced not later than 6 months prior to
commencing negotiations for such agreement or the entering into
the memorandum of agreement as the case may be. The Secretary
may utilize information collected in any study prior to such date
of enactment.
(3) In addition to developing environmental information, any
study of an area or region, to the extent practicable, shall be de-
signed to predict impacts on the marine biota which may result
from chronic low level pollution or large spills associated with outer
Continental Shelf production, from the introduction of drill cuttings
and drilling muds in the area, and from the laying of pipe to serve
the offshore production area, and the impacts of development off-
shore on the affected and coastal areas.
(b) Subsequent to the leasing and developing of any area or re-
gion, the Secretary shall conduct such additional studies to estab-
lish environmental information as he deems necessary and shall
monitor the human, marine, and coastal environments of such area
or region in a manner designed to provide time-series and data
trend information which can be used for comparison with any pre-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
38Sec. 21 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
viously collected data for the purpose of identifying any significant
changes in the quality and productivity of such environments, for
establishing trends in the areas studied and monitored, and for de-
signing experiments to identify the causes of such changes.
(c) The Secretary shall, by regulation, establish procedures for
carrying out his duties under this section, and shall plan and carry
out such duties in full cooperation with affected States. To the ex-
tent that other Federal agencies have prepared environmental im-
pact statements, are conducting studies, or are monitoring the af-
fected human, marine, or coastal environment, the Secretary may
utilize the information derived therefrom in lieu of directly con-
ducting such activities. The Secretary may also utilize information
obtained from any State of local government, or from any person,
for the purposes of this section. For the purpose of carrying out his
responsibilities under this section, the Secretary may by agreement
utilize, with or without reimbursement, the services, personnel, or
facilities of any Federal, State, or local government agency.
(d) The Secretary shall consider available relevant environ-
mental information in making decisions (including those relating to
exploration plans, drilling permits, and development and produc-
tion plans), in developing appropriate regulations and lease condi-
tions, and in issuing operating orders.
(e) As soon as practicable after the end of every 3 fiscal years,
the Secretary shall submit to the Congress and make available to
the general public an assessment of the cumulative effect of activi-
ties conducted under this Act on the human, marine, and coastal
environments.
(f) In executing his responsibilities under this section, the Sec-
retary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, enter into appro-
priate arrangements to utilize on a reimbursable basis the capabili-
ties of the Department of Commerce. In carrying out such arrange-
ments, the Secretary of Commerce is authorized to enter into con-
tract or grants with any person, organization, or entity with funds
appropriated to the Secretary of the Interior pursuant to this Act.
ø43 U.S.C. 1346¿
SEC. 21. SAFETY REGULATIONS.—(a) Upon the date of enact-
ment of this section, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Depart-
ment in which the Coast Guard is operating shall, in consultation
with each other and, as appropriate, with the heads of other Fed-
eral departments and agencies, promptly commence a joint study
of the adequacy of existing safety and health regulations and of the
technology, equipment, and techniques available for the explo-
ration, development, and production of the minerals of the outer
Continental Shelf. The results of such study shall be submitted to
the President who shall submit a plan to the Congress of his pro-
posals to promote safety and health in the exploration, develop-
ment, and production of the minerals of the outer Continental
Shelf.
(b) In exercising their respective responsibilities for the artifi-
cial islands, installations, and other devices referred to in section
4(a)(1) of this Act, the Secretary, and the Secretary of the Depart-
ment in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall require, on all
new drilling and production operations and, wherever practicable,
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
39 Sec. 22OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
on existing operations, the use of the best available and safest tech-
nologies which the Secretary determines to be economically fea-
sible, wherever failure of equipment would have a significant effect
on safety, health, or the environment, except where the Secretary
determines that the incremental benefits are clearly insufficient to
justify the incremental costs of utilizing such technologies.
(c) The Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard
is operating shall promulgate regulations or standards applying to
unregulated hazardous working conditions related to activities on
the Outer Continental Shelf when he determines such regulations
or standards are necessary. The Secretary of the Department in
which the Coast Guard is operating may from time to time modify
any regulations, interim or final, dealing with hazardous working
conditions on the Outer Continental Shelf.
(d) Nothing in this Act shall affect the authority provided by
law to the Secretary of Labor for the protection of occupational
safety and health, the authority provided by law to the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection Agency for the protection of
the environment, or the authority provided by law to the Secretary
of Transportation with respect to pipeline safety.
(e) The Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Sec-
retary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating,
and the Director of the National Institute of Occupational Safety
and Health, shall conduct studies of underwater diving techniques
and equipment suitable for protection of human safety and im-
provement of diver performance. Such studies shall include, but
need not be limited to, decompression and excursion table develop-
ment and improvement and all aspects of diver physiological re-
straints and protective gear for exposure to hostile environments.
(f)(1) In administering the provisions of this section, the Sec-
retary shall consult and coordinate with the heads of other appro-
priate Federal departments and agencies for purposes of assuring
that, to the maximum extent practicable, inconsistent or duplica-
tive requirements are not imposed.
(2) The Secretary shall make available to any interested person
a compilation of all safety and other regulations which are pre-
pared and promulgated by any Federal department or agency and
applicable to activities on the Outer Continental Shelf. Such com-
pilation shall be revised and updated annually.
ø43 U.S.C. 1347¿
SEC. 22. ENFORCEMENT.—(a) The Secretary, the Secretary of
the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, and the
Secretary of the Army shall enforce safety and environmental regu-
lations promulgated pursuant to this Act. Each such Federal de-
partment may by agreement utilize, with or without reimburse-
ment, the services, personnel, or facilities of other Federal depart-
ments and agencies for the enforcement of their respective regula-
tions.
(b) It shall be the duty of any holder of a lease or permit under
this Act to—
(1) maintain all places of employment within the lease
area or within the area covered by such permit in compliance
with occupational safety and health standards and, in addition,
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
40Sec. 22 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
free from recognized hazards to employees of the lease holder
or permit holder or of any contractor or subcontractor oper-
ating within such lease area or within the area covered by
such permit on the outer Continental Shelf;
(2) maintain all operations within such lease area or with-
in the area covered by such permit in compliance with regula-
tions intended to protect persons, property, and the environ-
ment on the outer Continental Shelf; and
(3) allow prompt access, at the site of any operation subject
to safety regulations, to any inspector, and to provide such doc-
uments and records which are pertinent to occupational or
public health, safety, or environmental protection, as may be
requested.
(c) The Secretary and the Secretary of the Department in
which the Coast Guard is operating shall individually, or jointly if
they so agree, promulgate regulations to provide for—
(1) scheduled onsite inspection, at least once a year, of
each facility on the outer Continental Shelf which is subject to
any environmental or safety regulation promulgated pursuant
to this Act, which inspection shall include all safety equipment
designed to prevent or ameliorate blowouts, fires, spillages, or
other major accidents; and
(2) periodic onsite inspection without advance notice to the
operator of such facility to assure compliance with such envi-
ronmental or safety regulations.
(d)(1) The Secretary or the Secretary of the Department in
which the Coast Guard is operating shall make an investigation
and public report on each major fire and each major oil spillage oc-
curring as a result of operations conducted pursuant to this Act,
and may, in his discretion, make an investigation and report of
lesser oil spillages. For purposes of this subsection, a major oil
spillage is any spillage in one instance of more than two hundred
barrels of oil during a period of thirty days. All holders of leases
or permits issued or maintained under this Act shall cooperate
with the appropriate Secretary in the course of any such investiga-
tion.(2) The Secretary or the Secretary of the Department in which
the Coast Guard is operating shall make an investigation and pub-
lic report on any death or serious injury occurring as a result of
operations conducted pursuant to this Act, and may, in his discre-
tion, make an investigation and report of any injury. For purposes
of this subsection, a serious injury is one resulting in substantial
impairment of any bodily unit or function. All holders of leases or
permits issued or maintained under this Act shall cooperate with
the appropriate Secretary in the course of any such investigation.
(e) The Secretary, or, in the case of occupational safety and
health, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard
is operating, may review any allegation from any person of the ex-
istence of a violation of a safety regulation issued under this Act.
(f) In any investigation conducted pursuant to this section, the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast
Guard is operating shall have power to summon witnesses and to
require the production of books, papers, documents, and any other
evidence. Attendance of witnesses or the production of books, pa-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
41 Sec. 23OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
pers, documents, or any other evidence shall be compelled by a
similar process, as in the district courts of the United States. Such
Secretary, or his designee, shall administer all necessary oaths to
any witnesses summoned before such investigation.
ø43 U.S.C. 1348¿
SEC. 23. CITIZEN SUITS, COURT JURISDICTION, AND JUDICIAL
REVIEW.—(a)(1) Except as provided in this section, any person hav-
ing a valid legal interest which is or may be adversely affected may
commence a civil action on his own behalf to compel compliance
with this Act against any person, including the United States, and
any other government instrumentality or agency (to the extent per-
mitted by the eleventh amendment to the Constitution) for any al-
leged violation of any provision of this Act or any regulation pro-
mulgated under this Act, or of the terms of any permit or lease
issued by the Secretary under this Act.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, no
action may be commenced under subsection (a)(1) of this section—
(A) prior to sixty days after the plaintiff has given notice
of the alleged violation, in writing under oath, to the Secretary
and any other appropriate Federal official, to the State in
which the violation allegedly occurred or is occurring, and to
any alleged violator; or
(B) if the Attorney General has commenced and is dili-
gently prosecuting a civil action in a court of the United States
or a State with respect to such matter, but in any such action
in a court of the United States any person having a legal inter-
est which is or may be adversely affected may intervene as a
matter of right.
(3) An action may be brought under this subsection imme-
diately after notification of the alleged violation in any case in
which the alleged violation constitutes an imminent threat to the
public health or safety or would immediately affect a legal interest
of the plaintiff.
(4) In any action commenced pursuant to this section, the At-
torney General, upon the request of the Secretary or any other ap-
propriate Federal official, may intervene as a matter of right.
(5) A court, in issuing any final order in any action brought
pursuant to subsection (a)(1) or subsection (c) of this section, may
award costs of litigation, including reasonable attorney and expert
witness fees, to any party, whenever such court determines such
award is appropriate. The court may, if a temporary restraining
order or preliminary injunction is sought, require the filing of a
bond or equivalent security in a sufficient amount to compensate
for any loss or damage suffered, in accordance with the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.
(6) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, all suits
challenging actions or decisions allegedly in violation of, or seeking
enforcement of, the provisions of this Act, or any regulation pro-
mulgated under this Act, or the terms of any permit or lease issued
by the Secretary under this Act, shall be undertaken in accordance
with the procedures described in this subsection. Nothing in this
section shall restrict any right which any person or class of persons
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
42Sec. 23 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
may have under any other Act or common law to seek appropriate
relief.
(b)(1) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this section, the
district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction of cases
and controversies arising out of, or in connection with (A) any oper-
ation conducted on the outer Continental Shelf which involves ex-
ploration, development, or production of the minerals, of the subsoil
and seabed of the outer Continental Shelf, or which involves rights
to such minerals, or (B) the cancellation, suspension, or termi-
nation of a lease or permit under this Act. Proceedings with respect
to any such case or controversy may be instituted in the judicial
district in which any defendant resides or may be found, or in the
judicial district of the State nearest the place the cause of action
arose.
(2) Any resident of the United States who is injured in any
manner through the failure of any operator to comply with any
rule, regulation, order, or permit issued pursuant to this Act may
bring an action for damages (including reasonable attorney and ex-
pert witness fees) only in the judicial district having jurisdiction
under paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c)(1) Any action of the Secretary to approve a leasing program
pursuant to section 18 of this Act shall be subject to judicial review
only in the United States Court of Appeal for the District of Colum-
bia. (2) Any action of the Secretary to approve, require modification
of, or disapprove any exploration plan or any development and pro-
duction plan under this Act shall be subject to judicial review only
in a United States court of appeals for a circuit in which an af-
fected State is located.
(3) The judicial review specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of
this subsection shall be available only to a person who (A) partici-
pated in the administrative proceedings related to the actions spec-
ified in such paragraphs, (B) is adversely affected or aggrieved by
such action, (C) files a petition for review of the Secretary’s action
within sixty days after the date of such action, and (D) promptly
transmits copies of the petition to the Secretary and to the Attor-
ney General.
(4) Any action of the Secretary specified in paragraph (1) or (2)
shall only be subject to review pursuant to the provisions of this
subsection, and shall be specifically excluded from citizen suits
which are permitted pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.
(5) The Secretary shall file in the appropriate court the record
of any public hearings required by this Act and any additional in-
formation upon which the Secretary based his decision, as required
by section 2112 of title 28, United States Code. Specific objections
to the action of the Secretary shall be considered by the court only
if the issues upon which such objections are based have been sub-
mitted to the Secretary during the administrative proceedings re-
lated to the actions involved.
(6) The court of appeals conducting a proceeding pursuant to
this subsection shall consider the matter under review solely on the
record made before the Secretary. The findings of the Secretary, if
supported by substantial evidence on the record considered as a
whole, shall be conclusive. The court may affirm, vacate, or modify
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
43 Sec. 24OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
any order or decision or may remand the proceedings to the Sec-
retary for such further action as it may direct.
(7) Upon the filing of the record with the court, pursuant to
paragraph (5), the jurisdiction of the court shall be exclusive and
its judgment shall be final, except that such judgment shall be sub-
ject to review by the Supreme Court of the United States upon writ
of certiorari.
ø43 U.S.C. 1349¿
SEC. 24. REMEDIES AND PENALTIES.—(a) At the request of the
Secretary, the Secretary of the Army, or the Secretary of the De-
partment in which the Coast Guard is operating, the Attorney Gen-
eral or a United States attorney shall institute a civil action in the
district court of the United States for the district in which the af-
fected operation is located for a temporary restraining order, in-
junction, or other appropriate remedy to enforce any provision of
this Act, any regulation or order issued under this Act, or any term
of a lease, license, or permit issued pursuant to this Act.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), if any person fails
to comply with any provision of this Act, or any term of a lease,
or permit issued pursuant to this Act, or any regulation or order
issued under this Act, after notice of such failure and expiration of
any reasonable period allowed for corrective action, such person
shall be liable for a civil penalty of not more than $20,000 for each
day of the continuance of such failure. The Secretary may assess,
collect, and compromise any such penalty. No penalty shall be as-
sessed until the person charged with a violation has been given an
opportunity for a hearing. The Secretary shall, by regulation at
least every 3 years, adjust the penalty specified in this paragraph
to reflect any increases in the Consumer Price Index (all items,
United States city average) as prepared by the Department of
Labor.
(2) If a failure described in paragraph (1) constitutes or con-
stituted a threat of serious, irreparable, or immediate harm or
damage to life (including fish and other aquatic life), property, any
mineral deposit, or the marine, coastal, or human environment, a
civil penalty may be assessed without regard to the requirement of
expiration of a period allowed for corrective action.
(c) Any person who knowingly and willfully (1) violates any
provision of this Act, any term of a lease, license, or permit issued
pursuant to this Act, or any regulations or order issued under the
authority of this Act designed to protect health, safety, or the envi-
ronment or conserve natural resources, (2) makes any false state-
ment, representation, or certification in any application, record, re-
port, or other document filed or required to be maintained under
this Act, (3) falsifies, tampers with, or renders inaccurate any mon-
itoring device or method of record required to be maintained under
this Act, or (4) reveals any data or information required to be kept
confidential by this Act shall, upon conviction, be punished by a
fine of not more than $100,000, or by imprisonment for not more
than ten years, or both. Each day that a violation under clause (1)
of this subsection continues, or each day that any monitoring de-
vise or data recorder remains inoperative or inaccurate because of
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
44Sec. 25 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
any activity described in clause (3) of this subsection, shall con-
stitute a separate violation.
(d) Whenever a corporation or other entity is subject to pros-
ecution under subsection (c) of this section, any officer or agent of
such corporation or entity who knowingly and willfully authorized,
ordered, or carried out the proscribed activity shall be subject to
the same fines or imprisonment, or both, as provided for under sub-
section (c) of this section.
(e) The remedies and penalties prescribed in this Act shall be
concurrent and cumulative and the exercise of one shall not pre-
clude the exercise of the others. Further, the remedies and pen-
alties prescribed in this Act shall be in addition to any other rem-
edies and penalties afforded by any other law or regulation.
ø43 U.S.C. 1350¿
SEC. 25. OIL AND GAS DEVELOPMENT AND PRODUCTION.—(a)(1)
Prior to development and production pursuant to an oil and gas
lease issued after the date of enactment of this section in any area
of the outer Continental Shelf, other than the Gulf of Mexico, or
issued or maintained prior to such date of enactment in any area
of the outer Continental Shelf, other than the Gulf of Mexico, with
respect to which no oil or gas has been discovered in paying quan-
tities prior to such date of enactment, the lessee shall submit a de-
velopment and production plan (hereinafter in this section referred
to as a ‘‘plan’’) to the Secretary, for approval pursuant to this sec-
tion.(2) A plan shall be accompanied by a statement describing all
facilities and operations, other than those on the outer Continental
Shelf, proposed by the lessee and known by him (whether or not
owned or operated by such lessee) which will be constructed or uti-
lized in the development and production of oil or gas from the lease
area, including the location and site of such facilities and oper-
ations, the land, labor, material, and energy requirements associ-
ated with such facilities and operations, and all environmental and
safety safeguards to be implemented.
(3) Except for any privileged or proprietary information (as
such term is defined in regulations issued by the Secretary), the
Secretary, within ten days after receipt of a plan and statement,
shall (A) submit such plan and statement to the Governor of any
affected State, and, upon request, to the executive of any affected
local government, and (B) make such plan and statement available
to any appropriate interstate regional entity and the public.
(b) After the date of enactment of this section, no oil and gas
lease may be issued pursuant to this Act in any region of the outer
Continental Shelf, other than the Gulf of Mexico, unless such lease
requires that development and production activities be carried out
in accordance with a plan which complies with the requirements of
this section.
(c) A plan may apply to more than one oil and gas lease, and
shall set forth, in the degree of detail established by regulations
issued by the Secretary—
(1) the specific work to be performed;
(2) a description of all facilities and operations located on
the outer Continental Self which are proposed by the lessee of
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
45 Sec. 25OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
known by him (whether or not owned or operated by such les-
see) to be directly related to proposed development, including
the location and size of such facilities and operations, and the
land, labor, material, and energy requirements associated with
such facilities and operations;
(3) the environmental safeguards to be implemented on the
outer Continental Shelf and how much safeguards are to be
implemented;
(4) all safety standards to be met and how such standards
are to be met;
(5) an expected rate of development and production and a
time schedule for performance; and
(6) such other relevant information as the Secretary may
by regulation require.
(d) The Secretary shall not grant any license or permit for any
activity described in detail in a plan affecting any land use or
water use in the coastal zone of a State with a coastal zone man-
agement program approved pursuant to section 306 of the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455), unless the State
concurs or is conclusively presumed to concur with the consistency
certification accompanying such plan pursuant to section
307(c)(3)(B) (i) or (ii) of such Act, or the Secretary of Commerce
makes the finding authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of such
Act. (e)(1) At least once the Secretary shall declare the approval of
a development and production plan in any area or region (as de-
fined by the Secretary) of the outer Continental Shelf, other than
the Gulf of Mexico, to be a major Federal action.
(2) The Secretary may require lessees of tracts for which devel-
opment and production plans have not been approved, to submit
preliminary or final plans for their leases, prior to or immediately
after a determination by the Secretary that the procedures under
the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 shall commence.
(f) If approval of a development and production plan is found
to be a major Federal action, the Secretary shall transmit the draft
environmental impact statement to the Governor of any affected
State, and upon request, to the executive of any local government,
and shall make such draft available to any appropriate interstate
regional entity and the public.
(g) If approval of a development and production plan is not
found to be a major Federal action, the Governor of any affected
State and the executive of any affected local government shall have
sixty days from the date of receipt of the plan from the Secretary
to submit comments and recommendations. Prior to submitting rec-
ommendations to the Secretary, the executive of any affected local
government must forward his recommendations to the Governor of
his State. Such comments and recommendations shall be made
available to the public upon request. In addition, any interested
person may submit comments and recommendations.
(h)(1) After reviewing the record of any public hearing held
with respect to the approval of a plan pursuant to the National En-
vironmental Policy Act of 1969 or the comments and recommenda-
tions submitted under subsection (g) of this section, the Secretary
shall, within sixty days after the release of the final environmental
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
46Sec. 25 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
impact statement prepared pursuant to the National Environ-
mental Policy Act of 1969 in accordance with subsection (e) of this
section, or sixty days after the period provided for comment under
subsection (g) of this section, approve, disapprove, or require modi-
fications of the plan. The Secretary shall require modification of a
plan if he determines that the lessee has failed to make adequate
provision in such plan for safe operations on the lease area or for
protection of the human, marine, or coastal environment, including
compliance with the regulations prescribed by the Secretary pursu-
ant to paragraph (8) of section 5(a) of this Act. Any modification
required by the Secretary which involves activities for which a Fed-
eral license or permit is required and which affects any land use
or water use in the coastal zone of a State with a coastal zone man-
agement program approved pursuant to section 306 of the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455) must receive con-
currence by such State with respect to the consistency certification
accompanying such plan pursuant to section 307(c)(3)(B) (i) or (ii)
of such Act unless the Secretary of Commerce makes the finding
authorized by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of such Act. The Secretary
shall disapprove a plan—
(A) if the lessee fails to demonstrate that he can comply
with the requirements of this Act or other applicable Federal
law, including the regulations prescribed by the Secretary pur-
suant to paragraph (8) of section 5(a) of this Act;
(B) if any of the activities described in detail in the plan
for which a Federal license or permit is required and which af-
fects any land use or water use in the coastal zone of a State
with a coastal zone management program approved pursuant
to section 306 of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16
U.S.C. 1455) do not receive concurrence by such State with re-
spect to the consistency certification accompanying such plan
pursuant to section 307(c)(3)(B) (i) or (ii) of such Act and the
Secretary of Commerce does not make the finding authorized
by section 307(c)(3)(B)(iii) of such Act;
(C) if operations threaten national security or national de-
fense; or
(D) if the Secretary determines, because of exceptional geo-
logical conditions in the lease areas, exceptional resource val-
ues in the marine or coastal environment, or other exceptional
circumstances, that (i) implementation of the plan would prob-
ably cause serious harm or damage to life (including fish and
other aquatic life), to property, to any mineral deposits (in
areas leased or not leased), to the national security or defense,
or to the marine, coastal or human environments, (ii) the
threat of harm or damage will not disappear or decrease to an
acceptable extent within a reasonable period of time, and (iii)
the advantages of disapproving the plan outweigh the advan-
tages of development and production.
(2)(A) If a plan is disapproved—
(i) under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1); or
(ii) under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) with respect
to a lease issued after approval of a coastal zone management
program pursuant to the Coastal Zone Management Act of
1972 (16 U.S.C. 1455),
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
47 Sec. 25OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
the lessee shall not be entitled to compensation because of such dis-
approval.
(B) If a plan is disapproved—
(i) under subparagraph (C) or (D) of paragraph (1); or
(ii) under subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) with respect
to a lease issued before approval of a coastal zone management
program pursuant to the Coastal Zone Management Act of
1972, and such approval occurs after the lessee has submitted
a plan to the Secretary,
the term of the lease shall be duly extended, and at any time with-
in five years after such disapproval, the lessee may reapply for ap-
proval of the same or a modified plan, and the Secretary shall ap-
prove, disapprove, or require modifications of such plan in accord-
ance with this subsection.
(C) Upon expiration of the five-year period described in sub-
paragraph (B) of this paragraph, or, in the Secretary’s discretion,
at an earlier time upon request of a lessee, if the Secretary has not
approved a plan, the Secretary shall cancel the lease and the lessee
shall be entitled to receive compensation in accordance with section
5(a)(2)(C) of this Act. The Secretary may, at any time within the
five-year period described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph,
require the lessee to submit a development and production plan for
approval, disapproval, or modification. If the lessee fails to submit
a required plan expeditiously and in good faith, the Secretary shall
find that the lessee has not been duly diligent in pursuing his obli-
gations under the lease, and shall immediately initiate procedures
to cancel such lease, without compenation, under the provisions of
section 5(c) of this Act.
(3) The Secretary shall, from time to time, review each plan
approved under this section. Such review shall be based upon
changes in available information and other onshore or offshore con-
ditions affecting or impacted by development and production pursu-
ant to such plan. If the review indicates that the plan should be
revised to meet the requirements of this subsection, the Secretary
shall require such revision.
(i) The Secretary may approve any revision of an approved
plan proposed by the lessee if he determines that such revision will
lead to greater recovery of oil and natural gas, improve the effi-
ciency, safety and environmental protection of the recovery oper-
ation, is the only means available to avoid substantial economic
hardship to the lessee, or is otherwise not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, to the extent such revision is consistent with
protection of the human, marine, and coastal environments. Any
revision of an approved plan which the Secretary determines is sig-
nificant shall be reviewed in accordance with subsections (d)
through (f) of this section.
(j) Whenever the owner of any lease fails to submit a plan in
accordance with regulations issued under this section, or fails to
comply with an approved plan, the lease may be canceled in accord-
ance with sections 5 (c) and (d). Termination of a lease because of
failure to comply with an approved plan, including required modi-
fications or revisions, shall not entitle a lessee to any compensa-
tion.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
48Sec. 26 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(k) If any development and production plan submitted to the
Secretary pursuant to this section provides for the production and
transportation of natural gas, the lessee shall contemporaneously
submit to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission that portion
of such plan which relates to production of natural gas and the fa-
cilities for transportation of natural gas. The Secretary and the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall agree as to which of
them shall prepare an environmental impact statement pursuant
to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 applicable to
such portion of such plan, or conduct studies as to the effect on the
environment of implementing it. Thereafter, the findings and rec-
ommendations by the agency preparing such environmental impact
statement or conducting such studies pursuant to such agreement
shall be adopted by the other agency, and such other agency shall
not independently prepare another environmental impact state-
ment or duplicate such studies with respect to such portion of such
plan, but the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, in connec-
tion with its review of an application for a certificate of public con-
venience and necessity applicable to such transportation facilities
pursuant to section 7 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 717), may
prepare such environmental studies or statement relevant to cer-
tification of such transportation facilities as have not been covered
by an environmental impact statement or studies prepared by the
Secretary. The Secretary, in consultation with the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission, shall promulgate rules to implement this
subsection, but the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission shall
retain sole authority with respect to rules and procedures applica-
ble to the filing of any application with the Commission and to all
aspects of the Commission’s review of, and action on, any such ap-
plication.
(l) The Secretary may require the provisions of this section to
apply to an oil and gas lease issued or maintained under this Act,
which is located in that area of the Gulf of Mexico which is adja-
cent to the State of Florida, as determined pursuant to section
4(a)(2) of this Act.
ø43 U.S.C. 1351¿
SEC. 26. OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF OIL AND GAS INFORMA-
TION PROGRAM.—(a)(1)(A) Any lessee or permittee conducting any
exploration for, or development or production of, oil or gas pursu-
ant to this Act shall provide the Secretary access to all data and
information (including processed, analyzed, and interpreted infor-
mation) obtained from such activity and shall provide copies of
such data and information as the Secretary may request. Such data
and information shall be provided in accordance with regulations
which the Secretary shall prescribed.
(B) If an interpretation provided pursuant to subparagraph (A)
of this paragraph is made in good faith by the lessee or permittee,
such lessee or permittee shall not be held responsible for any con-
sequence of the use of or reliance upon such interpretation.
(C) Whenever any data and information is provided to the Sec-
retary, pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph—
(i) by a lessee, in the form and manner of processing which
is utilized by such lessee in the normal conduct of his business,
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
49 Sec. 26OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
the Secretary shall pay the reasonable cost of reproducing such
data and information;
(ii) by a lessee, in such other form and manner of proc-
essing as the Secretary may request, the Secretary shall pay
the reasonable cost of processing and reproducing such data
and information;
(iii) by a permittee, in the form and manner of processing
which is utilized by such permittee in the normal conduct of
his business, the Secretary shall pay such permittee the rea-
sonable cost of reproducing such data and information for the
Secretary and shall pay at the lowest rate available to any pur-
chaser for processing such data and information the costs at-
tributable to such processing; and
(iv) by the permittee, in such other form and manner of
processing as the Secretary may request, the Secretary shall
pay such permittee the reasonable cost of processing and repro-
ducing such data and information for the Secretary,
pursuant to such regulations as he may prescribe.
(2) Each Federal department and agency shall provide the Sec-
retary with any data obtained by such Federal department or agen-
cy pursuant to section 11 of this Act, and any other information
which may be necessary or useful to assist him in carrying out the
provisions of this Act.
(b)(1) Data and information provided to the Secretary pursuant
to subsection (a) of this section shall be processed, analyzed, and
interpreted by the Secretary for purposes of carrying out his duties
under this Act.
(2) As soon as practicable after information provided to the
Secretary pursuant to subsection (a) of this section is processed,
analyzed, and interpreted, the Secretary shall make available to
the affected States, and upon request, to any affected local govern-
ment, a summary of data designed to assist them in planning for
the onshore impacts of possible oil and gas development and pro-
duction. Such summary shall include estimates of (A) the oil and
gas reserves in areas leased or to be leased, (B) the size and timing
of development if and when oil or gas, or both, is found, (C) the lo-
cation of pipelines, and (D) the general location and nature of on-
shore facilities.
(c) The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to (1) assure that
the confidentiality of privileged or proprietary information received
by the Secretary under this section will be maintained, and (2) set
forth the time periods and conditions which shall be applicable to
the release of such information. Such regulations shall include a
provision that no such information will be transmitted to any af-
fected State unless the lessee, or the permittee and all persons to
whom such permittee has sold such information under promise of
confidentiality, agree to such transmittal.
(d)(1) The Secretary shall transmit to any affected State—
(A) an index, and upon request copies of, all relevant ac-
tual or proposed programs, plans, reports, environmental im-
pact statements, tract nominations (including negative nomina-
tions) and other lease sale information, any similar type of rel-
evant information, and all modifications and revisions thereof
and comments thereon, prepared or obtained by the Secretary
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
50Sec. 26 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
pursuant to this Act, but no information transmitted by the
Secretary under this subsection shall identify any particular
tract with the name or names of any particular party so as not
to compromise the competitive position of any party or parties
participating in the nominations;
(B)(i) the summary of data prepared by the Secretary pur-
suant to subsection (b)(2) of this section, and (ii) any other
processed, analyzed, or interpreted data prepared by the Sec-
retary pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of this section, unless the
Secretary determines that transmittal of such data prepared
pursuant to such subsection (b)(1) would unduly damage the
competitive position of the lessee or permittee who provided
the Secretary with the information which the Secretary had
processed, analyzed, or interpreted; and
(C) any relevant information received by the Secretary
pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, subject to any appli-
cable requirements as to confidentiality which are set forth in
regulations prescribed under subsection (c) of this section.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of any regulation required
pursuant to the second sentence of subsection (c) of this section, the
Governor of any affected State may designate an appropriate State
official to inspect, at a regional location which the Secretary shall
designate, any privileged information received by the Secretary re-
garding any activity adjacent to such State, except that no such in-
spection shall take place prior to the sale of a lease covering the
area in which such activity was conducted. Knowledge obtained by
such State during such inspection shall be subject to applicable re-
quirements as to confidentiality which are set forth in regulations
prescribed under subsection (c) of this section.
(e) Prior to transmitting any privileged information to any
State, or granting such State access to such information, the Sec-
retary shall enter into a written agreement with the Governor of
such State in which such State agrees, as a condition precedent to
receiving or being granted access to such information, to waive the
defenses set forth in subsection (f)(2) of this section, and to hold the
United States harmless from any violations of the regulations pre-
scribed pursuant to subsection (c) that the State or its employees
may commit.
(f)(1) Whenever any employee of the Federal Government or of
any State reveals information in violation of the regulations pre-
scribed pursuant to subsection (c) of this section, the lessee or per-
mittee who supplied such information to the Secretary or to any
other Federal official, and any person to whom such lessee or per-
mittee has sold such information under promise of confidentiality,
may commence a civil action for damages in the appropriate dis-
trict court of the United States against the Federal Government or
such State, as the case may be.
(2) In any action commenced against the Federal Government
or a State pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Federal
Government or such State, as the case may be, may not raise as
a defense (A) any claim of sovereign immunity, or (B) any claim
that the employee who revealed the privileged information which
is the basis of such suit was acting outside the scope of his employ-
ment in revealing such information.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
51 Sec. 27OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(g) Any provision of State or local law which provides for public
access to any privileged information received or obtained by any
person pursuant to this Act is expressly preempted by the provi-
sions of this section, to the extent that it applies to such informa-
tion.
(h) If the Secretary finds that any State cannot or does not
comply with the regulations issued under subsection (c) of this sec-
tion, he shall thereafter withhold transmittal and deny inspection
of privileged information to such State until he finds that such
State can and will comply with such regulations.
ø43 U.S.C. 1352¿
SEC. 27. FEDERAL PURCHASE AND DISPOSITION OF OIL AND
GAS.—(a)(1) Except as may be necessary to comply with the provi-
sions of sections 6 and 7 of this Act, all royalties or net profit
shares, or both accruing to the United States under any oil and gas
lease issued or maintained in accordance with this Act, shall, on
demand of the Secretary, be paid in oil or gas.
(2) The United States shall have the right to purchase not to
exceed 162 ⁄3 per centum by volume of the oil and gas produced pur-
suant to a lease issued or maintained in accordance with this Act,
at the regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, at the fair
market value at the well head of the oil and gas saved, removed,
or sold, except that any oil or gas obtained by the United States
as royalty or net profit share shall be credited against the amount
that may be purchased under this subsection.
(3) Title to any royalty, net profit share, or purchased oil or gas
may be transferred, upon request, by the Secretary to the Secretary
of Defense, to the Administrator of the General Services Adminis-
tration, or to the Secretary of Energy, for disposal within the Fed-
eral Government.
(b)(1) The Secretary, except as provided in this subsection, may
offer to the public and sell by competitive bidding for not more
than its regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, not less
than its fair market value, any part of the oil (A) obtained by the
United States pursuant to any lease as royalty or net profit share,
or (B) purchased by the United States pursuant to subsection (a)(2)
of this section.
(2) Whenever, after consultation with the Secretary of Energy,
the Secretary determines that small refiners do not have access to
adequate supplies of oil at equitable prices, the Secretary may dis-
pose of any oil which is taken as a royalty or net profit share accru-
ing or reserved to the United States pursuant to any lease issued
or maintained under this Act, or purchased by the United States
pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this section, by conducting a lottery
for the sale of such oil, or may equitably allocate such oil among
the competitors for the purchase of such oil, at the regulated price,
or if no regulated price applies, at its fair market value. The Sec-
retary shall limit participation in any allocation or lottery sale to
assure such access and shall publish notice of such allocation or
sale, and the terms thereof, at least thirty days in advance. Such
notice shall include qualifications for participation, the amount of
oil to be sold, and any limitation in the amount of oil which any
participant may be entitled to purchase.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
52Sec. 27 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(3) The Secretary may only sell or otherwise dispose of oil de-
scribed in paragraph (1) of this subsection in accordance with any
provision of law, or regulations issued in accordance with such pro-
visions, which provide for the Secretary of Energy to allocate,
transfer, exchange, or sell oil in amounts or at prices determined
by such provision of law or regulations.
(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection,
the Secretary, pursuant to such terms as he determines, may offer
to the public and sell by competitive bidding for not more than its
regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, not less than its
fair market value any part of the gas (A) obtained by the United
States pursuant to a lease as royalty or net profit share, or (B) pur-
chased by the United States pursuant to subsection (a)(2) of this
section.
(2) Whenever, after consultation with and advice from the Sec-
retary of Energy, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission de-
termines that an emergency shortage of natural gas is threatening
to cause severe economic or social dislocation in any region of the
United States and that such region can be serviced in a practical,
feasible, and efficient manner by royalty, net profit share, or pur-
chased gas obtained pursuant to the provisions of this section, the
Secretary of the Interior may allocate or conduct a lottery for the
sale of such gas, and shall limit participation in any allocation or
lottery sale of such gas to any person servicing such region, but he
shall not sell any such gas for more than its regulated price, or,
if no regulated price applies, less than its fair market value. Prior
to selling or allocating any gas pursuant to this subsection, the Sec-
retary shall consult with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commis-
sion.(d) The lessee shall take any Federal oil or gas for which no
acceptable bids are received, as determined by the Secretary, and
which is not transferred pursuant to subsection (a)(3) of this sec-
tion, and shall pay to the United States a cash amount equal to
the regulated price, or, if no regulated price applies, the fair mar-
ket value of the oil or gas so obtained.
(e) As used in this section—
(1) the term ‘‘regulated price’’ means the highest price—
(A) at which oil may be sold pursuant to the Emer-
gency Petroleum Allocation Act of 1973 and any rule or
order issued under such Act;
(B) at which natural gas Act, any other Act, regula-
tions governing natural gas pricing, or any rule or order
issued under any such Act or any such regulations; or
(C) at which either Federal oil or gas may be sold
under any other provision of law or rule or order there-
under which sets a price (or manner for determining a
price) for oil or gas; and
(2) the term ‘‘small refiner’’ has the meaning given such
term by Small Business Administration Standards 128.3–8 (d)
and (g), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section or
as thereafter revised or amended.
(f) Nothing in this section shall prohit the right of the United
States to purchase any oil or gas produced on the outer Continental
Shelf as provided by section 12(b) of this Act.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
53 Sec. 29OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
ø43 U.S.C. 1353¿
SEC. 28. LIMITATION ON EXPORT.—(a) Except as provided in
subsection (d) of this section, any oil or gas produced from the
outer Continental Shelf shall be subject to the requirements and
provisions of the Export Administration Act of 1969 (50 App.
U.S.C. 2401 et seq.).
(b) Before any oil or gas subject to this section may be exported
under the requirements and provisions of the Export Administra-
tion Act of 1969, the President shall make and publish an express
finding that such exports will not increase reliance on imported oil
or gas, are in the national interest, and are in accord with the pro-
visions of the Export Administration Act of 1969.
(c) The President shall submit reports to the Congress con-
taining findings made under this section, and after the date of re-
ceipt of such report Congress shall have a period of sixty calendar
days, thirty days of which Congress must have been in session, to
consider whether exports under the terms of this section are in the
national interest. If the Congress within such time period passes
a concurrent resolution of disapproval stating disagreement with
the President’s finding concerning the national interest, further ex-
ports made pursuant to such Presidential findings shall cease.
(d) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any oil or
gas which is either exchanged in similar quantity for convenience
or increased efficiency of transportation with persons or the govern-
ment of a foreign state, or which is temporarily exported for con-
venience or increased efficiency of transportation across parts of an
adjacent foreign state and reenters the United States, or which is
exchanged or exported pursuant to an existing international agree-
ment.
ø43 U.S.C. 1354¿
SEC. 29. RESTRICTIONS ON EMPLOYMENT.—No full-time officer
or employee of the Department of the Interior who directly or indi-
rectly discharged duties or responsibilities under this Act, and who
was at any time during the twelve months preceding the termi-
nation of his employment with the Department compensated under
the Executive Schedule or compensated at or above the annual rate
of basic pay for grade GS–16 of the General Schedule shall—
(1) within two years after his employment with the De-
partment has ceased—
(A) knowingly act as agent or attorney for, or other-
wise represent, any other person (except the United
States) in any formal or informal appearance before;
(B) with the intent to influence, make any oral or writ-
ten communication on behalf of any other person (except
the United States) to; or
(C) knowingly aid or assist in representing any other
person (except the United States) in any formal or infor-
mal appearance before,
any department, agency, or court of the United States, or any
officer or employee thereof, in connection with any judicial or
other proceeding, application, request for a ruling or other de-
termination, regulation, order, lease, permit, rulemaking, or
other particular matter involving a specific party or parties in
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
54Sec. 30 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
which the United States is a party or has a direct and substan-
tial interest which was actually pending under his official re-
sponsibility as an officer or employee within a period of one
year prior to the termination of such responsibility or in which
he participated personally and substantially as an officer or
employee; or
(2) within one year after his employment with the Depart-
ment has ceased—
(A) knowingly act as agent or attorney for, or other-
wise represent, any other person (except the United
States) in any formal or informal appearance before; or
(B) with the intent to influence, make any oral or writ-
ten communication on behalf of any other person (except
the United States) to,
the Department of the Interior, or any officer or employee
thereof, in connection with any judicial, rulemaking, regula-
tion, order, lease, permit, regulation, or other particular matter
which is pending before the Department of the Interior or in
which the Department has a direct and substantial interest.
ø43 U.S.C. 1355¿
SEC. 30. DOCUMENTATION, REGISTRY, AND MANNING REQUIRE-
MENTS.—(a) Within six months after the date of enactment of this
section, the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard
is operating shall issue regulations which require that any vessel,
rig, platform, or other vehicle or structure—
(1) which is used at any time after the one-year period be-
ginning on the effective date of such regulations for activities
pursuant to this Act and which is built or rebuilt at any time
after such one-year period, when required to be documented by
the laws of the United States, be documented under the laws
of the United States;
(2) which is used for activities pursuant to this Act, com-
ply, except as provided in subsection (b), with such minimum
standards of design, construction, alteration, and repair as the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Department in which the
Coast Guard is operating establishes; and
(3) which is used at any time after the one-year period be-
ginning on the effective date of such regulations for activities
pursuant to this Act, be manned or crewed, except as provided
in subsection (c), by citizens of the United States or aliens law-
fully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
(b) The regulations issued under subsection (a)(2) of this sec-
tion shall not apply to any vessel, rig, platform, or other vehicle or
structure built prior to the date of enactment of this section, until
such time after such date as such vehicle or structure is rebuilt.
(c) The regulations issued under subsection (a)(3) of this sec-
tion shall not apply—
(1) to any vessel, rig, platform, or other vehicle or struc-
ture if—
(A) specific contractual provisions or national registry
manning requirements in effect on the date of enactment
of this section provide to the contrary;
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
55 Sec. 31OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(B) there are not a sufficient number of citizens of the
United States, or aliens lawfully admitted to the United
States for permanent residence, qualified and available for
such work; or
(C) the President makes a specific finding, with re-
spect to the particular vessel, rig, platform, or other vehi-
cle or structure, that application would not be consistent
with the national interest; and
(2) to any vessel, rig, platform, or other vehicle or struc-
ture, over 50 percent of which is owned by citizens of a foreign
nation or with respect to which the citizens of a foreign nation
have the right effectively to control, except to the extent and
to the degree that the President determines that the govern-
ment of such foreign nation or any of its political subdivisions
has implemented, by statute, regulation, policy, or practice, a
national manning requirement for equipment engaged in the
exploration, development, or production of oil and gas in its off-
shore areas.
ø43 U.S.C. 1356¿
SEC. 31. COASTAL IMPACT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) COASTAL POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.—The term ‘‘coastal
political subdivision’’ means a political subdivision of a coastal
State any part of which political subdivision is—
(A) within the coastal zone (as defined in section 304
of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C.
1453)) of the coastal State as of the date of enactment of
the Energy Policy Act of 2005; and
(B) not more than 200 nautical miles from the geo-
graphic center of any leased tract.
(2) COASTAL POPULATION.—The term ‘‘coastal population’’
means the population, as determined by the most recent offi-
cial data of the Census Bureau, of each political subdivision
any part of which lies within the designated coastal boundary
of a State (as defined in a State’s coastal zone management
program under the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16
U.S.C. 1451 et seq.)).
(3) COASTAL STATE.—The term ‘‘coastal State’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 304 of the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
(4) COASTLINE.—The term ‘‘coastline’’ has the meaning
given the term ‘‘coast line’’ in section 2 of the Submerged
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1301).
(5) DISTANCE.—The term ‘‘distance’’ means the minimum
great circle distance, measured in statute miles.
(6) LEASED TRACT.—The term ‘‘leased tract’’ means a tract
that is subject to a lease under section 6 or 8 for the purpose
of drilling for, developing, and producing oil or natural gas re-
sources.
(7) LEASING MORATORIA.—The term ‘‘leasing moratoria’’
means the prohibitions on preleasing, leasing, and related ac-
tivities on any geographic area of the outer Continental Shelf
as contained in sections 107 through 109 of division E of the
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
56Sec. 31 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 (Public Law 108–447;
118 Stat. 3063).
(8) POLITICAL SUBDIVISION.—The term ‘‘political subdivi-
sion’’ means the local political jurisdiction immediately below
the level of State government, including counties, parishes, and
boroughs.
(9) PRODUCING STATE.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—The term ‘‘producing State’’ means a
coastal State that has a coastal seaward boundary within
200 nautical miles of the geographic center of a leased
tract within any area of the outer Continental Shelf.
(B) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘producing State’’ does not
include a producing State, a majority of the coastline of
which is subject to leasing moratoria, unless production
was occurring on January 1, 2005, from a lease within 10
nautical miles of the coastline of that State.
(10) QUALIFIED OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF REVENUES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘qualified Outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues’’ means all amounts received by the
United States from each leased tract or portion of a leased
tract—
(i) lying—
(I) seaward of the zone covered by section
8(g); or
(II) within that zone, but to which section 8(g)
does not apply; and
(ii) the geographic center of which lies within a
distance of 200 nautical miles from any part of the
coastline of any coastal State.
(B) INCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘qualified Outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues’’ includes bonus bids, rents, royalties
(including payments for royalty taken in kind and sold),
net profit share payments, and related late-payment inter-
est from natural gas and oil leases issued under this Act.
(C) EXCLUSION.—The term ‘‘qualified Outer Conti-
nental Shelf revenues’’ does not include any revenues from
a leased tract or portion of a leased tract that is located
in a geographic area subject to a leasing moratorium on
January 1, 2005, unless the lease was in production on
January 1, 2005.
(b) PAYMENTS TO PRODUCING STATES AND COASTAL POLITICAL
SUBDIVISIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall, without further ap-
propriation, disburse to producing States and coastal political
subdivisions in accordance with this section $250,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2007 through 2010.
(2) DISBURSEMENT.—In each fiscal year, the Secretary
shall disburse to each producing State for which the Secretary
has approved a plan under subsection (c), and to coastal polit-
ical subdivisions under paragraph (4), such funds as are allo-
cated to the producing State or coastal political subdivision, re-
spectively, under this section for the fiscal year.
(3) ALLOCATION AMONG PRODUCING STATES.—
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
57 Sec. 31OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in subparagraph
(C) and subject to subparagraph (D), the amounts avail-
able under paragraph (1) shall be allocated to each pro-
ducing State based on the ratio that—
(i) the amount of qualified outer Continental Shelf
revenues generated off the coastline of the producing
State; bears to
(ii) the amount of qualified outer Continental
Shelf revenues generated off the coastline of all pro-
ducing States.
(B) AMOUNT OF OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF REVE-
NUES.—For purposes of subparagraph (A)—
(i) the amount of qualified outer Continental Shelf
revenues for each of fiscal years 2007 and 2008 shall
be determined using qualified outer Continental Shelf
revenues received for fiscal year 2006; and
(ii) the amount of qualified outer Continental
Shelf revenues for each of fiscal years 2009 and 2010
shall be determined using qualified outer Continental
Shelf revenues received for fiscal year 2008.
(C) MULTIPLE PRODUCING STATES.—In a case in which
more than one producing State is located within 200 nau-
tical miles of any portion of a leased tract, the amount al-
located to each producing State for the leased tract shall
be inversely proportional to the distance between—
(i) the nearest point on the coastline of the pro-
ducing State; and
(ii) the geographic center of the leased tract.
(D) MINIMUM ALLOCATION.—The amount allocated to a
producing State under subparagraph (A) shall be at least
1 percent of the amounts available under paragraph (1).
(4) PAYMENTS TO COASTAL POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS.—
(A) I N GENERAL.—The Secretary shall pay 35 percent
of the allocable share of each producing State, as deter-
mined under paragraph (3) to the coastal political subdivi-
sions in the producing State.
(B) FORMULA.—Of the amount paid by the Secretary to
coastal political subdivisions under subparagraph (A)—
(i) 25 percent shall be allocated to each coastal po-
litical subdivision in the proportion that—
(I) the coastal population of the coastal polit-
ical subdivision; bears to
(II) the coastal population of all coastal polit-
ical subdivisions in the producing State;
(ii) 25 percent shall be allocated to each coastal
political subdivision in the proportion that—
(I) the number of miles of coastline of the
coastal political subdivision; bears to
(II) the number of miles of coastline of all
coastal political subdivisions in the producing
State; and
(iii) 50 percent shall be allocated in amounts that
are inversely proportional to the respective distances
between the points in each coastal political subdivision
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
58Sec. 31 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
that are closest to the geographic center of each leased
tract, as determined by the Secretary.
(C) EXCEPTION FOR THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.—For the
purposes of subparagraph (B)(ii), the coastline for coastal
political subdivisions in the State of Louisiana without a
coastline shall be considered to be 1 ⁄3 the average length
of the coastline of all coastal political subdivisions with a
coastline in the State of Louisiana.
(D) EXCEPTION FOR THE STATE OF ALASKA.—For the
purposes of carrying out subparagraph (B)(iii) in the State
of Alaska, the amounts allocated shall be divided equally
among the two coastal political subdivisions that are clos-
est to the geographic center of a leased tract.
(E) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN LEASED TRACTS.—For pur-
poses of subparagraph (B)(iii), a leased tract or portion of
a leased tract shall be excluded if the tract or portion of
a leased tract is located in a geographic area subject to a
leasing moratorium on January 1, 2005, unless the lease
was in production on that date.
(5) NO APPROVED PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph (B) and ex-
cept as provided in subparagraph (C), in a case in which
any amount allocated to a producing State or coastal polit-
ical subdivision under paragraph (4) or (5) is not disbursed
because the producing State does not have in effect a plan
that has been approved by the Secretary under subsection
(c), the Secretary shall allocate the undisbursed amount
equally among all other producing States.
(B) RETENTION OF ALLOCATION.—The Secretary shall
hold in escrow an undisbursed amount described in sub-
paragraph (A) until such date as the final appeal regard-
ing the disapproval of a plan submitted under subsection
(c) is decided.
(C) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive subparagraph
(A) with respect to an allocated share of a producing State
and hold the allocable share in escrow if the Secretary de-
termines that the producing State is making a good faith
effort to develop and submit, or update, a plan in accord-
ance with subsection (c).
(c) COASTAL IMPACT ASSISTANCE PLAN.—
(1) SUBMISSION OF STATE PLANS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than July 1, 2008, the
Governor of a producing State shall submit to the Sec-
retary a coastal impact assistance plan.
(B) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.—In carrying out subpara-
graph (A), the Governor shall solicit local input and pro-
vide for public participation in the development of the
plan.
(2) APPROVAL.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall approve a plan
of a producing State submitted under paragraph (1) before
disbursing any amount to the producing State, or to a
coastal political subdivision located in the producing State,
under this section.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
59 Sec. 31OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(B) COMPONENTS.—The Secretary shall approve a plan
submitted under paragraph (1) if—
(i) the Secretary determines that the plan is con-
sistent with the uses described in subsection (d); and
(ii) the plan contains—
(I) the name of the State agency that will
have the authority to represent and act on behalf
of the producing State in dealing with the Sec-
retary for purposes of this section;
(II) a program for the implementation of the
plan that describes how the amounts provided
under this section to the producing State will be
used;
(III) for each coastal political subdivision that
receives an amount under this section—
(aa) the name of a contact person; and
(bb) a description of how the coastal polit-
ical subdivision will use amounts provided
under this section;
(IV) a certification by the Governor that
ample opportunity has been provided for public
participation in the development and revision of
the plan; and
(V) a description of measures that will be
taken to determine the availability of assistance
from other relevant Federal resources and pro-
grams.
(3) AMENDMENT.—Any amendment to a plan submitted
under paragraph (1) shall be—
(A) developed in accordance with this subsection; and
(B) submitted to the Secretary for approval or dis-
approval under paragraph (4).
(4) PROCEDURE.—Not later than 90 days after the date on
which a plan or amendment to a plan is submitted under para-
graph (1) or (3), the Secretary shall approve or disapprove the
plan or amendment.
(d) AUTHORIZED USES.—
(1) I N GENERAL.—A producing State or coastal political
subdivision shall use all amounts received under this section,
including any amount deposited in a trust fund that is admin-
istered by the State or coastal political subdivision and dedi-
cated to uses consistent with this section, in accordance with
all applicable Federal and State laws, only for one or more of
the following purposes:
(A) Projects and activities for the conservation, protec-
tion, or restoration of coastal areas, including wetland.
(B) Mitigation of damage to fish, wildlife, or natural
resources.
(C) Planning assistance and the administrative costs
of complying with this section.
(D) Implementation of a federally-approved marine,
coastal, or comprehensive conservation management plan.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
60Sec. 31 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(E) Mitigation of the impact of outer Continental Shelf
activities through funding of onshore infrastructure
projects and public service needs.
(2) COMPLIANCE WITH AUTHORIZED USES.—If the Secretary
determines that any expenditure made by a producing State or
coastal political subdivision is not consistent with this sub-
section, the Secretary shall not disburse any additional amount
under this section to the producing State or the coastal polit-
ical subdivision until such time as all amounts obligated for
unauthorized uses have been repaid or reobligated for author-
ized uses.
(3) LIMITATION.—Not more than 23 percent of amounts re-
ceived by a producing State or coastal political subdivision for
any 1 fiscal year shall be used for the purposes described in
subparagraphs (C) and (E) of paragraph (1).
(e) EMERGENCY FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In response to a spill of national signifi-
cance under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 (33 U.S.C. 2701 et
seq.), at the request of a producing State or coastal political
subdivision and notwithstanding the requirements of part 12 of
title 43, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regula-
tion), the Secretary may immediately disburse funds allocated
under this section for 1 or more individual projects that are—
(A) consistent with subsection (d); and
(B) specifically designed to respond to the spill of na-
tional significance.
(2) APPROVAL BY SECRETARY.—The Secretary may, in the
sole discretion of the Secretary, approve, on a project by project
basis, the immediate disbursal of the funds under paragraph
(1). (3) STATE REQUIREMENTS.—
(A) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—If the Secretary ap-
proves a project for funding under this subsection that is
included in a plan previously approved under subsection
(c), not later than 90 days after the date of the funding ap-
proval, the producing State or coastal political subdivision
shall submit to the Secretary any additional information
that the Secretary determines to be necessary to ensure
that the project is in compliance with subsection (d).
(B) AMENDMENT TO PLAN.—If the Secretary approves a
project for funding under this subsection that is not in-
cluded in a plan previously approved under subsection (c),
not later than 90 days after the date of the funding ap-
proval, the producing State or coastal political subdivision
shall submit to the Secretary for approval an amendment
to the plan that includes any projects funded under para-
graph (1), as well as any information about such projects
that the Secretary determines to be necessary to ensure
that the project is in compliance with subsection (d).
(C) LIMITATION.—If a producing State or coastal polit-
ical subdivision does not submit the additional information
or amendments to the plan required by this paragraph, or
if, based on the information submitted by the Secretary de-
termines that the project is not in compliance with sub-
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
61 Sec. 32OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
section (d), by the deadlines specified in this paragraph,
the Secretary shall not disburse any additional funds to
the producing State or the coastal political subdivisions
until the date on which the additional information or
amendment to the plan has been approved by the Sec-
retary.
ø43 U.S.C. 1356a¿
SEC. 32. TRANSBOUNDARY HYDROCARBON AGREEMENTS.
(a) AUTHORIZATION.—After the date of enactment of the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2013, the Secretary may implement the terms
of any transboundary hydrocarbon agreement for the management
of transboundary hydrocarbon reservoirs entered into by the Presi-
dent and approved by Congress. In implementing such an agree-
ment, the Secretary shall protect the interests of the United States
to promote domestic job creation and ensure the expeditious and
orderly development and conservation of domestic mineral re-
sources in accordance with all applicable United States laws gov-
erning the exploration, development, and production of hydro-
carbon resources on the Outer Continental Shelf.
(b) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—No later than 180 days after all parties
to a transboundary hydrocarbon agreement have agreed to its
terms, a transboundary hydrocarbon agreement that does not
constitute a treaty in the judgment of the President shall be
submitted by the Secretary to—
(A) the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
(B) the Majority Leader of the Senate;
(C) the Chair of the Committee on Natural Resources
of the House of Representatives; and
(D) the Chair of the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources of the Senate.
(2) CONTENTS OF SUBMISSION.—The submission shall in-
clude—
(A) any amendments to this Act or other Federal law
necessary to implement the agreement;
(B) an analysis of the economic impacts such agree-
ment and any amendments necessitated by the agreement
will have on domestic exploration, development, and pro-
duction of hydrocarbon resources on the Outer Continental
Shelf; and
(C) a detailed description of any regulations expected
to be issued by the Secretary to implement the agreement.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION OF SPECIFIC TRANSBOUNDARY AGREEMENT
W ITH MEXICO.—The Secretary may take actions as necessary to
implement the terms of the Agreement between the United States
of America and the United Mexican States Concerning Trans-
boundary Hydrocarbon Reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico, signed at
Los Cabos, February 20, 2012, including—
(1) approving unitization agreements and related arrange-
ments for the exploration, development, or production of oil
and natural gas from transboundary reservoirs or geological
structures;
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
62Sec. 33 OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(2) making available, in the limited manner necessary
under the agreement and subject to the protections of confiden-
tiality provided by the agreement, information relating to the
exploration, development, and production of oil and natural gas
from a transboundary reservoir or geological structure that
may be considered confidential, privileged, or proprietary infor-
mation under law;
(3) taking actions consistent with an expert determination
under the agreement; and
(4) ensuring only appropriate inspection staff at the Bu-
reau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement or other Fed-
eral agency personnel designated by the Bureau, the operator,
or the lessee have authority to stop work on any installation
or other device or vessel permanently or temporarily attached
to the seabed of the United States that may be erected thereon
for the purpose of resource exploration, development or produc-
tion activities as approved by the Secretary.
(d) SAVINGS PROVISIONS.—Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued—
(1) to authorize the Secretary to participate in any negotia-
tions, conferences, or consultations with Cuba regarding explo-
ration, development, or production of hydrocarbon resources in
the Gulf of Mexico along the United States maritime border
with Cuba or the area known by the Department of the Inte-
rior as the ‘‘Eastern Gap’’; or
(2) as affecting the sovereign rights and the jurisdiction
that the United States has under international law over the
Outer Continental Shelf that appertains to it.
ø43 U.S.C. 1356b¿
SEC. 33. WIND LEASE SALES FOR AREAS OF THE OUTER CONTI-
NENTAL SHELF OFFSHORE OF TERRITORIES OF THE
UNITED STATES.
(a) WIND L EASE SALES OFF COASTS OF TERRITORIES OF THE
UNITED STATES.—
(1) CALL FOR INFORMATION AND NOMINATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall issue calls for
information and nominations for proposed wind lease sales
for areas of the outer Continental Shelf described in para-
graph (2) that are determined to be feasible.
(B) INITIAL CALL.—Not later than September 30, 2025,
the Secretary shall issue an initial call for information and
nominations under this paragraph.
(2) CONDITIONAL WIND LEASE SALES.—The Secretary may
conduct wind lease sales in each area within the exclusive eco-
nomic zone of the United States adjacent to the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United
States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern
Mariana Islands that meets each of the following criteria:
(A) The Secretary has concluded that a wind lease sale
in the area is feasible.
(B) The Secretary has determined that there is suffi-
cient interest in leasing the area.
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022
63 Sec. 33OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT
(C) The Secretary has consulted with the Governor of
the territory regarding the suitability of the area for wind
energy development.
ø43 U.S.C. 1356c¿
VerDate Mar 15 2010 15:16 Sep 14, 2022 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\ENMISC\OCSLA.BEL HOLC
September 14, 2022
G:\COMP\ENMISC\OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LANDS ACT.XML
As Amended Through P.L. 117-169, Enacted August 16, 2022