1
1 Title I of the Social Security Act is administered by the Department of Health and Human
Services (formerly the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare). The Office of Family As-
sistance, Social Security Administration, administers benefit payments under title I. The Admin-
istration for Public Services, Office of Human Development Services, administers social services
under title I.
P.L. 92?603, repealed title I effective January 1, 1974, except with respect to Puerto Rico,
Guam, and the Virgin Islands. The Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas may elect to ini-
tiate a title I social services program if it chooses; see Vol. II, P.L. 94-241, approved March 24,
1976, 90 Stat. 263, [Covenant to Establish Northern Mariana Islands].
2 This table of contents does not appear in the law.303,
SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
[Chapter 531 of the 74th Congress, approved August 14, 1935, 49
Stat. 620.]
[As Amended Through P.L. 112–275, Enacted January 14, 2013]
øCurrency: This publication is a compilation of the text of title I of Chapter 531 of
the 74th Congress. It was last amended by the public law listed in the As Amend-
ed Through note above and below at the bottom of each page of the pdf version
and reflects current law through the date of the enactment of the public law listed
at https://www.govinfo.gov/app/collection/comps/¿
øNote: While this publication does not represent an official version of any Federal
statute, substantial efforts have been made to ensure the accuracy of its contents.
The official version of Federal law is found in the United States Statutes at Large
and in the United States Code. The legal effect to be given to the Statutes at
Large and the United States Code is established by statute (1 U.S.C. 112, 204).¿
[Each title of the Social Security Act has its own update through
note that reflects amendments made to a provision of that title.]
AN ACT To provide for the general welfare by establishing a system of Federal old-
age benefits, and by enabling the several States to make more adequate provision
for aged persons, blind persons, dependent and crippled children, maternal and
child welfare, public health, and the administration of their unemployment com-
pensation laws; to establish a Social Security Board; to raise revenue; and for
other purposes.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
TITLE I—GRANTS TO STATES FOR OLD-AGE ASSISTANCE
FOR THE AGED 1
TABLE OF CONTENTS OF TITLE 2
Sec. 1. Appropriation.
Sec. 2. State old-age plans.
Sec. 3. Payment to States.
Sec. 4. Operation of State plans.
øSec. 5. Repealed.¿
Sec. 6. Definition.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 11:16 Aug 08, 2018 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 6611 G:\COMP\SSA\SSA.BEL HOLCPC
August 8, 2018
G:\COMP\SSA\SOCIAL SECURITY ACT-TITLE IGRANTS TO STATES ....XML
As Amended Through P.L. 112-275, Enacted January 14, 2013
2Sec. 1 TITLE I OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
3 This was deemed to refer to the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section
509(a) of the ‘‘Department of Education Organization Act’’ (P.L. 96?88, 93 Stat. 695), effective
May 4, 1980.
APPROPRIATION
SEC. 1. ø42 U.S.C. 301¿ For the purpose of enabling each
State, as far as practicable under the conditions in such State, to
furnish financial assistance to aged needy individuals, there is
hereby authorized to be appropriated for each fiscal year a sum
sufficient to carry out the purposes of this title. The sums made
available under this section shall be used for making payments to
States which have submitted, and had approved by the Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare 3 (hereinafter referred to as the
‘‘Secretary’’), State plans for old-age assistance.
STATE OLD- AGE PLANS
S EC. 2. ø42 U.S.C. 302¿ (a) A State plan for old-age assistance
must? (1) except to the extent permitted by the Secretary with re-
spect to services, provide that it shall be in effect in all polit-
ical subdivisions of the State, and, if administered by them, be
mandatory upon them;
(2) provide for financial participation by the State;
(3) either provide for the establishment or designation of
a single State agency to administer the plan, or provide for the
establishment or designation of a single State agency to super-
vise the administration of the plan;
(4) provide (A) for granting an opportunity for a fair hear-
ing before the State agency to any individual whose claim for
assistance under the plan is denied or is not acted upon with
reasonable promptness, and (B) that if the State plan is admin-
istered in each of the political subdivisions of the State by a
local agency and such local agency provides a hearing at which
evidence may be presented prior to a hearing before the State
agency, such local agency may put into effect immediately
upon issuance its decision upon the matter considered at such
hearing;
(5) provide (A) such methods of administration (including
methods relating to the establishment and maintenance of per-
sonnel standards on a merit basis, except that the Secretary
shall exercise no authority with respect to the selection, tenure
of office, and compensation of any individual employed in ac-
cordance with such methods) as are found by the Secretary to
be necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the plan,
and (B) for the training and effective use of paid subprofes-
sional staff, with particular emphasis on the full-time or part-
time employment of recipients and other persons of low in-
come, as community service aides, in the administration of the
plan and for the use of nonpaid or partially paid volunteers in
a social service volunteer program in providing services to ap-
plicants and recipients and in assisting any advisory commit-
tees established by the State agency;
(6) provide that the State agency will make such reports,
in such form and containing such information, as the Secretary
VerDate Nov 24 2008 11:16 Aug 08, 2018 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\SSA\SSA.BEL HOLCPC
August 8, 2018
G:\COMP\SSA\SOCIAL SECURITY ACT-TITLE IGRANTS TO STATES ....XML
As Amended Through P.L. 112-275, Enacted January 14, 2013
3 Sec. 2TITLE I OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
may from time to time require, and comply with such provi-
sions as the Secretary may from time to time find necessary
to assure the correctness and verification of such reports;
(7) provide safeguards which permit the use or disclosure
of information concerning applicants or recipients only (A) to
public officials who require such information in connection
with their official duties, or (B) to other persons for purposes
directly connected with the administration of the State plan;
(8) provide that all individuals wishing to make applica-
tion for assistance under the plan shall have opportunity to do
so, and that such assistance shall be furnished with reasonable
promptness to all eligible individuals;
(9) provide, if the plan includes assistance for or on behalf
of individuals in private or public institutions, for the estab-
lishment or designation of a State authority or authorities
which shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining
standards for such institutions;
(10) if the State plan includes old-age assistance?
(A) provide that the State agency shall, in determining
need for such assistance, take into consideration any other
income and resources of an individual claiming old-age as-
sistance, as well as any expenses reasonably attributable
to the earning of any such income; except that, in making
such determination, (i) the State agency may disregard not
more than $7.50 per month of any income and (ii) of the
first $80 per month of additional income which is earned
the State agency may disregard not more than the first
$20 thereof plus one-half of the remainder;
(B) include reasonable standards, consistent with the
objectives of this title, for determining eligibility for and
the extent of such assistance; and
(C) provide a description of the services (if any) which
the State agency makes available (using whatever internal
organizational arrangement it finds appropriate for this
purpose) to applicants for and recipients of such assistance
to help them attain self-care, including a description of the
steps taken to assure, in the provision of such services,
maximum utilization of other agencies providing similar or
related services; and
(11) provide that information is requested and exchanged
for purposes of income and eligibility verification in accordance
with a State system which meets the requirements of section
1137 of this Act.
(b) The Secretary shall approve any plan which fulfills the con-
ditions specified in subsection (a), except that he shall not approve
any plan which imposes, as a condition of eligibility for assistance
under the plan?
(1) an age requirement of more than sixty-five years; or
(2) any residence requirement which (A) in the case of ap-
plicants for old-age assistance, excludes any resident of the
State who has resided therein five years during the nine years
immediately preceding the application for old-age assistance
and has resided therein continuously for one year immediately
preceding the application, and (B) in the case of applicants for
VerDate Nov 24 2008 11:16 Aug 08, 2018 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\SSA\SSA.BEL HOLCPC
August 8, 2018
G:\COMP\SSA\SOCIAL SECURITY ACT-TITLE IGRANTS TO STATES ....XML
As Amended Through P.L. 112-275, Enacted January 14, 2013
4Sec. 3 TITLE I OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
medical assistance for the aged, excludes any individual who
resides in the State; or
(3) any citizenship requirement which excludes any citizen
of the United States.
At the option of the State, the plan may provide that manuals and
other policy issuances will be furnished to persons without charge
for the reasonable cost of such materials, but such provision shall
not be required by the Secretary as a condition for the approval of
such plan under this title.
(c) Nothing in this title shall be construed to permit a State
to have in effect with respect to any period more than one State
plan approved under this title.
PAYMENT TO STATES
S EC. 3. ø42 U.S.C. 303¿ (a) From the sums appropriated there-
for, the Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to each State which has
a plan approved underthis title, for each quarter, beginning with
the quarter commencing October 1, 1960?
ø(1) Stricken.¿
(2) in the case of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and
Guam, an amount equal to one-half of the total of the sums ex-
pended during such quarter as old-age assistance under the
State plan, not counting so much of any expenditure with re-
spect to any month as exceeds $37.50 multiplied by the total
number of recipients of old-age assistance for such month; plus
ø(3) Stricken.¿
(4) in the case of any State, an amount equal to 50 percent
of the total amounts expended during such quarter as found
necessary by the Secretary for the proper and efficient admin-
istration of the State plan.
(b) The method of computing and paying such amounts shall
be as follows:
(1) The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall,
prior to the beginning of each quarter, estimate the amount to
be paid to the State for such quarter under the provisions of
subsection (a), such estimate to be based on (A) a report filed
by the State containing its estimate of the total sum to be ex-
pended in such quarter in accordance with the provisions of
such subsection, and stating the amount appropriated or made
available by the State and its political subdivisions for such ex-
penditures in such quarter, and if such amount is less than the
State’s proportionate share of the total sum of such estimated
expenditures, the source or sources from which the difference
is expected to be derived, (B) records showing the number of
aged individuals in the State, and (C) such other investigation
as the Secretary may find necessary.
(2) The Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare shall
then certify to the Secretary of the Treasury the amount so
estimatedby the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
(A) reduced or increased, as the case may be, by any sum by
which he finds that his estimate for any prior quarter was
greater or less thanthe amount which should have been paid
to the State under subsection (a) for such quarter, and (B) re-
VerDate Nov 24 2008 11:16 Aug 08, 2018 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\SSA\SSA.BEL HOLCPC
August 8, 2018
G:\COMP\SSA\SOCIAL SECURITY ACT-TITLE IGRANTS TO STATES ....XML
As Amended Through P.L. 112-275, Enacted January 14, 2013
5 Sec. 6TITLE I OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
4 As in original; ‘‘(a)’’ should be stricken.
duced by a sum equivalent to the pro rata share to which the
United States is equitably entitled, as determined by the Sec-
retary of Health, Education, and Welfare, of the net amount re-
covered during any prior quarter by the State or any political
subdivision thereof with respect to assistance furnished under
the State plan; except that such increases or reductions shall
not be made to the extent that such sums have been applied
to make the amount certified for any prior quarter greater or
less than the amount estimated by the Secretary for such prior
quarter: Provided, That any part of the amount recovered from
the estate of a deceased recipient which is not in excess of the
amount expended by the State or any political subdivision
thereof for the funeral expenses of the deceased shall not be
considered as a basis for reduction under clause (B) of this
paragraph.
(3) The Secretary of the Treasury shall thereupon, through
the Division of Disbursement of the Treasury Department and
prior to audit or settlement by the General Accounting Office,
pay to the State, at the time or times fixed by the Secretary
of Health, Education, and Welfare, the amount so certified.
OPERATION OF STATE PLANS
SEC. 4. ø42 U.S.C. 304¿ In the case of any State plan which
has been approved under this title by the Secretary of Health, Edu-
cation, and Welfare, if the Secretary, after reasonable notice and
opportunity for hearing to the State agency administering or super-
vising the administration of such plan, finds?
(1) that the plan has been so changed as to impose any
age, residence, or citizenship requirement prohibited by section
2(b), or that in the administration of the plan any such prohib-
ited requirement is imposed, with the knowledge of such State
agency, in a substantial number of cases; or
(2) that in the administration of the plan there is a failure
to comply substantially with any provision required by section
2(a) to be included in the plan;
the Secretary shall notify such State agency that further payments
will not be made to the State (or, in his discretion, that payments
will be limited to categories under or parts of the State plan not
affected by such failure) until the Secretary is satisfied that such
prohibited requirement is no longer so imposed, and that there is
no longer any such failure to comply. Until he is so satisfied he
shall make no further payments to such State (or shall limit pay-
ments to categories under or parts of the State plan not affected
by such failure).
SEC. 5. øRepealed.¿
DEFINITION
SEC. 6. ø42 U.S.C. 306¿ (a) 4 For the purposes of this title, the
term ‘‘old-age assistance’’ means money payments to, or (if provided
in or after the third month before the month in which the recipient
makes application for assistance) medical care in behalf of or any
VerDate Nov 24 2008 11:16 Aug 08, 2018 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\SSA\SSA.BEL HOLCPC
August 8, 2018
G:\COMP\SSA\SOCIAL SECURITY ACT-TITLE IGRANTS TO STATES ....XML
As Amended Through P.L. 112-275, Enacted January 14, 2013
6Sec. 6 TITLE I OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT
5 So in original. Should be ‘‘needs’’.
type of remedial care recognized under State law in behalf of,
needy individuals who are 65 years of age or older, but does not
include any such payments to or care in behalf of any individual
who is an inmate of a public institution (except as a patient in a
medical institution). Such term also includes payments which are
not included within the meaning of such term under the preceding
sentence, but which would be so included except that they are
made on behalf of such a needy individual to another individual
who (as determined in accordance with standards prescribed by the
Secretary) is interested in or concerned with the welfare of such
needy individual, but only with respect to a State whose State plan
approved under section 2 includes provision for?
(1) determination by the State agency that such needy in-
dividual has, by reason of his physical or mental condition,
such inability to manage funds that making payments to him
would be contrary to his welfare and, therefore, it is necessary
to provide such assistance through payments described in this
sentence;
(2) making such payments only in cases in which such pay-
ments will, under the rules otherwise applicable under the
State plan for determining need and the amount of old-age as-
sistance to be paid (and in conjunction with other income and
resources), meet all the need 5 of the individuals with respect
to whom such payments are made;
(3) undertaking and continuing special efforts to protect
the welfare of such individual and to improve, to the extent
possible, his capacity for self-care and to manage funds;
(4) periodic review by such State agency of the determina-
tion under paragraph (1) to ascertain whether conditions justi-
fying such determination still exist, with provision for termi-
nation of such payments if they do not and for seeking judicial
appointment of a guardian or other legal representative, as de-
scribed in section 1111, if and when it appears that such action
will best serve the interests of such needy individual; and
(5) opportunity for a fair hearing before the State agency
on the determination referred to in paragraph (1) for any indi-
vidual with respect to whom it is made.
At the option of a State (if its plan approved under this title so pro-
vides), such term (i) need not include money payments to an indi-
vidual who has been absent from such State for a period in excess
of 90 consecutive days (regardless of whether he has maintained
his residence in such State during such period) until he has been
present in such State for 30 consecutive days in the case of such
an individual who has maintained his residence in such State dur-
ing such period or 90 consecutive days in the case of any other such
individual, and (ii) may include rent payments made directly to a
public housing agency on behalf of a recipient or a group or groups
of recipients of assistance under such plan.
VerDate Nov 24 2008 11:16 Aug 08, 2018 Jkt 000000 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 9001 Sfmt 9001 G:\COMP\SSA\SSA.BEL HOLCPC
August 8, 2018
G:\COMP\SSA\SOCIAL SECURITY ACT-TITLE IGRANTS TO STATES ....XML
As Amended Through P.L. 112-275, Enacted January 14, 2013